MultiChoice Nigeria has unveiled Super Falcons striker, Asisat Oshoala, as brand ambassador. The partnership is part of the ‘Here For Her’ SuperSport campaign in support of female sports.  Oshoala is one of the biggest football stars from the African continent. She is currently making waves with the Barcelona female team, winning the 2023 Women’s UEFA Champions League and the Spanish League title Speaking at the unveiling in Lagos, Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. John Ugbe, said the choice of Oshoala as brand ambassador was due to her passion and dedication for the game, which continues to inspire millions across the globe.  “I am especially excited about our partnership with Asisat Oshoala, as I pride myself as an advocate for women, leading a team that comprises an equal split of men and women.  “We are partnering Asisat as our brand ambassador, as part of our ‘Here For Her’ campaign, with SuperSport promising to support female sports. Asisat has proved to be a strong dedicated advocate for the sport, and has inspired millions with her skills, athleticism and grace – on and off the pitch. “With this brand partnership, we will continue to tell our truly authentic stories and sports forms a key part of that narrative, especially with the upcoming FIFA Women’s World Cup from July 20-August 20, 2023, across our SuperSport channels. We are here for the Super Falcons, we are here for Asisat,” Ugbe said.  Commenting on the partnership, Oshoala said the partnership is about giving hope to the younger generation.  “I really hope this will be a long term because I can see a lot of positivity at the beginning. This is not about me, but about the younger generation coming, the kids that will be hopeful for the future. I didn’t have the opportunity to watch a lot of matches while growing up, but here I am, a MultiChoice ambassador.  “It’s amazing how female sports have grown.  We need to acknowledge the power of the media at promoting talents, and that is what MultiChoice has brought to us. I appreciate everyone that made this happen. The World Cup is here, MultiChoice will be showing all the matches, and I urge you all to support the Super Falcons,” she said.  Oshoala has enjoyed a spectacular career with loads of trophies and personal awards to her name. She was crowned the African female Football Player of the Year for 2014, 2015, 2017 and 2019; won the Golden Ball at the 2014 African Women’s Championship and the Golden Boot at the 2016 Africa Women’s Championship.  Her other personal awards include 2014 U-20 Women’s World Cup Golden Boot and Golden Ball; 2017 Chinese Women’s League Top Scorer; Queen Of The Pitch Award 2014; BBC Footballer of the Year 2015 and Aiteo Award for Best CAF Player 2017.