Mary Nnah The leading experiential and consumer experience firm, Maxxconnection Limited, has launched a platform to provide access to basic healthcare for the underprivileged and less privileged in the society tagged Maxxcare to mark its tenth anniversary in Lagos. The agency which started operations in 2013 announced at the media conference activities to celebrate a decade in business at its corporate head office in Ogudu Lagos recently. Speaking on the initiative, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Owolabi Mustapha said as a responsible organisation and an organisation that is sensitive about its environment, it was necessary that it gives back to society and also support the government in some critical area of need. According to him, “We have been doing some activities in the area where we are operating from in terms of corporate social responsibilities in the past. Now, we have seen the need for us to support the government in a particularly critical area which is healthcare. Therefore, we are launching Maxxcare as a platform that would be used to allow people without means to access basic healthcare such as blood pressure, oral care, eyesight checks, blood sugar and others. Mustapha said, “Our focus areas are high-density populations such as rural communities, parks and garages etc where people cannot access basic healthcare, Maxxcare would then work  to support the government to provide these basic primary healthcare to them.” He said that the exercise would be periodic and the identified areas would be visited with some medical practitioners and checks would be carried out on them. Speaking on the mechanics, Senior Manager, Client Engagement Maxxconnection, Mary Phillips said, “Maxxconnection will take Maxxcare to these places because if you ask them to come to you they might never show up therefore, Maxxcare is taking the healthcare solutions to their neighbourhood. “We will have a nice setup and we will bring in medical practitioners and partner with other brands to provide refreshments. We want to be sure that people that do not have access to basic healthcare can then have access through the platform.” Mustapha stressed the need for Maxxconnection as a business to kick start in 2013 was born out of the fact there was a need in the industry for an agency that can deepen consumer experience because that keeps changing globally.