There is need for better management of plastic waste  The national policy on plastic waste management in Nigeria aims at phasing out single-use plastic bags by 2028, while ensuring that all plastic packaging in the market is recyclable or biodegradable by 2030. But there is nothing to suggest any efforts in that direction. The Polymer Institute of Nigeria (PIN) has described the whole idea as a “lazy man’s approach” to a problem that requires serious thinking. “This is worrisome because in some countries like Singapore, plastic wastes are used to generate power,” according to PIN President, Paul Mamza. “The government rather than ban should engage polymer professionals in finding ways of disposing plastics which is environmentally friendly and utilisation of wastes to generate wealth. There is huge revenue potential in polymer wastes.”     We urge all relevant authorities to work with PIN on this issue. Research has shown that disposed plastics materials merely break down into smaller pieces and can remain in the environment for up to 2,000 years or longer. Yet, no fewer than 33 per cent of all plastic, including water bottles, bags, and straws, among others are used just once and thrown away. Toxic chemicals leach out of plastic and are found in the blood and tissue of nearly all humans. Exposure to them is linked to cancers, birth defects, impaired immunity, endocrine disruption, and other ailments. Respiratory issues are increasing because of air pollution from burning plastic, animal lifespans are shortened because of consuming plastic, littered plastic is clogging drains and causing floods, and unmanaged plastic is contaminating our precious oceans and waterways.       Some governments have placed ban on plastic products or on single-use plastics. Some have also banned disposable plastic shopping bags to protect the environment. Countries in Africa that have banned plastics include Rwanda, Kenya, the Congo, and South Africa. But Nigeria has never really taken the issue of environment seriously. It is within that context that we endorse the attempt to enact a law that would ban plastic materials in a country that has gained notoriety on this issue, considering the huge population that depends on its use. According to the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigeria is among the 20 countries generating more than 80 per cent of the land-based plastic wastes that end up in the ocean.     According to Ellen & MacArthur Foundation, there will be more plastic in the oceans than fish by 2050 if nothing is done. Environmentalists believe there are many ways to curb plastic waste, and these are by producing less, consuming less, and better managing of existing waste to prevent contamination or leakage. They agree that solutions may vary, but that policy solutions, increased awareness, and improved design and disposal processes, among others, are critical to changing behaviour and better management of plastic waste.         The good thing is that plastics can be recycled though they will have to be first sorted, shredded, and rid of impurities like paper. The shreds are then melted and formed into pellets, which can be made into other products. Some companies are known to recycle polyethylene into outdoor decking material, fencing, and doors and windows. Plastic bottles can also be recycled into t-shirts, sweaters, fleece jackets, insulation for jackets and sleeping bags, carpeting and more bottles.     Road construction is one area where many countries now recycle plastics. Some local communities are using recycled plastic as filler for cement blocks, ropes, and household goods such as baskets and mats. At a larger scale, manufacturers are using recycled plastic and textiles to make clothing and furniture. By using waste materials for products with monetary value such as clothing, shoes, or road construction, society is incentivised to collect plastic and capture its full value. That is the way forward.