Mr. Akeem Badru, a teacher at St Michael RCM Primary School, Ogunpa Lunloye, Abeokuta, Ogun, recently recieved the 2023 Cambridge dedicated teacher awards for Central and Southern Africa, instituted by Cambridge University Press, for his achievement in First Step Initiatives’, a STEM project that combines craft and model making to promote inquisitiveness, creativity and critical thinking among children. Funmi Ogundare reports  St. Micheal RCM Primary School, where Akeem Badru teaches, was built with old corrugated iron sheets. For his passion and dedication to the teaching profession, the Abeokuta-born teacher, recently recieved  the 2023 Cambridge dedicated teacher awards for Central and Southern Africa, instituted by Cambridge University Press.   The awards are a global competition which celebrates the efforts of teachers around the world. Teaching in a school, located in the heart of Ogunpa sorrounded by bushes with no power supply, mobile network, water,  and access to basic amenities, didn’t deter him as he decided to convert these obstacles into an asset to impact his pupils positively. He earned the global vote of confidence for his achievement in ‘First Step Initiatives’, a STEM project that combines craft and model making to promote inquisitiveness, creativity and critical thinking among children; and for his work as TeachSDG (Sustainable Development Goals) Ambassador. In this role, he  also financed the construction of a borehole for the community to solve the problem of water-related diseases that keep his pupils out of school.  For his efforts Badru  received the continuing professional development opportunities for himself and his school. This complements the £500 worth of books, along with a Cambridge Dedicated Teacher awards trophy and promotion for him and his school he earned as regional winner for Central and Southern Africa. He will also feature on a thank-you page on the new Cambridge University Press Education textbooks from February 2024, to  serve as an inspiration to all teachers. Speaking with THISDAY, at a brief award ceremony,  Badru who expressed excitement about the honour , noted that when he was transferred to the school in 2019, he almost wept considering the environment and lack of basic amenities. However, he had to make the best of the terrible situation by living among the members of the community, bought uniforms for the children to win the support and attention of the parents and encouraged the pupils to come to school. ” The first question I asked myself was, ‘who did I offend ? But after a while I felt that since it is my calling, I have to bear in mind that I have to convert my obstacle into an asset . When I got here in 2019, I met just four pupils . I decided that if I must make a meaningful impact, I must  live there to win the support and attention of the parents.  As a teacher, I need to make my presence felt the more than just being a teacher.  “The parents of the pupils are not financially buoyant so they can’t afford to buy uniforms for their wards. So I decided that from my own effort, I will sew school uniforms for all the pupils in the school so as to encourage them to come to school,”Badru who had won several awards stressed. He recalled that in 2021, Teach for Nigeria under the leadership of Mr Gbenga Oyebode gave him an award of ‘Outstanding Leadership ‘with a price money of one million naira , adding that he had to plough the money  to the community by providing a borehole so that they can have access to healthy living. He  thanked Cambridge University Press for the award and  support for the teaching profession. ‘ I believe this recognition of a teacher at a small school in rural Nigeria, will encourage other teachers in Nigeria and across the continent to dedicate themselves to their calling by building the skills that will help our children unlock their potential.”  Badru however appealed to the state government to keep to its promise of ensuring that a befitting school structure is put in place in the community for the pupils and teachers. The Managing Director for Sub-Saharan Africa at Cambridge University Press, Rob Laing congratulated Badru, saying that his important STEM project and ambassador role is helping to build brighter future for young people in his community. “The major growth in nominations worldwide and from Sub-Saharan Africa clearly demonstrates the value communities place on dedicated teachers, making Akeem Badru’s recognition first as regional winner for Central and Southern Africa; and now global winner, is all the more significant.”    The Business Development Manager, West Africa Cambridge University Press and  Assessment, Mr. Oluwatosin Taiwo, said all around the world, teachers do fantastic work, aside just teaching  the curriculum, adding that  they instil values, encourage, support, befriend and truly impact the lives of their students and colleagues around them. To help celebrate teachers and publicise their stories, he said the Cambridge Dedicated Teacher Awards,  invite students, parents and other teachers to nominate an educator for something wonderful that they have done. ” We then share these nominations for the world to see. After we received over 11,000 entries from 99 different countries for the 2023 awards, our judges decided on Akeem Badru from St. Michael R.C.M School in Nigeria, as the regional winner for Central and Southern Africa.”