Gbenga Sodeinde in Ado Ekiti Governors in the South-west states alongside the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi and other prominent stakeholders are set to host President Bola Tinubu  in Osun state. The celebration, which will be the first gathering of Yoruba sons and daughters from Diaspora and within Nigeria to celebrate a president from their race, will be spearheaded by the South-west Presidential Inauguration Celebration. It will  also include other stakeholders, political bodies and  would take place at the Ojaja Resort in Ile-Ife, Osun State on Saturday, July 22, 2023. The chairman of the group planning the post-inauguration ceremony, Professor of Economic, Public & International Affairs, Kayode Familoni, and the Head of the Media and Publicity Sub-committee, Femi Odere, addressed newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti state yesterday. Familoni disclosed that Governors Biodun Oyebanji(Ekiti), Babajide Sanwo-Olu(Lagos) and Dapo Abiodun(Ogun) are expected to preside over the event, alongside other leaders of the ruling party across the country. He stated that the event is significant to the unity and progress of the country as exemplified by the new president in his agenda for the country, adding that the people of the South West were determined to support the administration for success. Familoni maintained that the new president since his assumption of office a month ago has demonstrated genuine intention for the development of the country with his policies and programmes. “We had a previous president who did not have a solid home in the past but for the first time we are having a president that is genuinely love and supported ; hence the uniqueness of the inauguration deserves a special event. We are planning a honorary degree for the president in one of the universities and as well a book launch in his honour “This coming celebration of our president is perhaps the first time that Yoruba sons and daughters from the Diaspora and within the country will have a structured and formal social gathering for a true Yoruba Sons as the President of this Republic. “Two governors from the South-west region will be the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of this unique occasion. “Yoruba people regardless of political affiliation are ready to support him. The leaders are committed to his success and you can see what he achieved in one month, what some people can’t do in eight years. “The overarching objective of this inauguration celebration of President Tinubu in his core political constituency, the Southwest, is to emphasize the fact that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is strongly supported at home. This support can only get stronger in the course of his administration, “  he said. Also speaking, Odere said: “Even though the planned celebration of President Tinubu can be said to have the stamp of approval of the All Progressives Congress (APC), we have extended invitations to the governors of the states under the control of the opposition party. “We are not unmindful of the critical role that Governor Seyi Makinde played in his support for the president during the elections. We would be extremely happy if the Oyo State governor can grace our inauguration celebration for Asiwaju in the Southwest,” he said. He disclosed further that already, Gov. Biodun Oyebanji of Ekiti state has expressed his firm commitment and support for the event.