Alex Enumah in Abuja President Bola Tinubu on Friday objected to the tendering of some documents by the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in proof of his petition against the declaration of Tinubu as winner of the February 25 presidential election. The documents which were aimed at establishing allegations of perjury and non qualification included; Tinubu’s Chicago University Certificate, discharge Certificate of the National Youth Services Corps (NYSC), a copy of transcript from South West College, and membership card of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Others are; notarization judgement of the USA court for criminal forfeiture of asset said to belong to Tinubu, certificate of Service from Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc, in addition to a print out of his alleged Guinean passport. Besides Tinubu, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and his party, who are all respondents in Atiku and PDP’s petition against the outcome of the recent presidential election also objected to the admissibility of the documents. The various documents were tendered on Friday by one Mike Enahoro-Ebah, who testified as the 27th witness of the petitioners.  At Friday’s proceedings, shortly after the petitioners tendered polling unit results (Forms EC8A) of Delta, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Imo and Kogi States, their lead counsel, Chief Chris Uche, SAN, announced to the court that they would be calling their star witness, who was summoned by the court to give evidence in their petition. After adopting his witness statement on oath, the witness was then led by Uche to tender a copy of Tinubu’s Form EC9 accompanied with an affidavit in support of particulars. However, the witness informed the court that while the name on Tinubu’s NYSC certificate bears Tinubu Bola Adekunle; on his South West College transcript, the column for gender stated the bearer as “female”. Meanwhile, Tinubu and APC are set to cross examine the witness on his deposition. Details later.