Onuminya Innocent In Sokoto A butcher identified as Usman Buda has been killed in Sokoto over alleged blasphemous comment against the Holy Prophet. THISDAY  gathered that the butcher allegedly made the comment during an argument with another trader. It was also gathered that the incident happened at the Sokoto main Abattoir around 8.00am  yesterday. “Our leaders made a fruitless attempt to save him but they could not contain the crowd. They initially rescued him and hid him before they were overpowered.” “He was beaten to death by his fellow butchers. His corpse was later taken to Usman DanFodio University Teaching Hospital by the police. Another account said his closest business partners also attempted to rescue him but,”Some of them sustained injuries and are currently receiving treatment at the hospital.” A security operative, who confirmed the incident on condition of anonymity, said the suspect was originally from Tambuwal Local Government Area but was residing at Gidan Igwe in Sokoto North Local Government Area. He was selling cow entrails at the Sokoto Fish and Vegetables market which was known as Kasuwan Dankure. A neighbour of the deceased who simply identified himself as Malam Yusuf described his death as painful. “Usman is my immediate neighbour. He is very religious, in fact, he belonged to Izala sect. We prayed and attended Tafsir together at Primary board quarters. There is no way he could make such a statement against the Holy Prophet.” “There must be a reason behind his murder. Because he is very popular in his business of selling cow entrails and was envied by many of his colleagues,” he said A perishable items  seller at Kasuwan Dankure meat and vegetable market whose stand is next to that of Usman expressed shock over the development. “I have not been myself since I heard about what happened. I know Usman liked arguments on religious issues but I didn’t hear him even for once using derogatory remarks against the Prophet’s companions,” he said Another butcher in the market said: “This is how God destined his end. “The cow entrails seller next to him will now come back, because he has been out of the business since during the fasting period due to lack of patronage. Because people patronise Usman more than him,” he said. Police confirmed  murder. The Sokoto State Police Command, which confirmed the murder said, a distress call was received at about 09: 20am that one Usman Buda ‘M’ of Gwandu Local Government Area, a butcher at Sokoto Abattoir allegedly blasphemed the Holy Prophet Muhammad (SAW) as a result he was mobbed and attacked. “Upon receiving the information, the Commissioner of Police, Area Commander Metro and DPO kwanni led a team of policemen and all other operational commanders to the scene. “On arrival, the mob escaped the scene and left the victim unconscious where he was rescued and taken to Usmanu Danfodio Teaching Hospital Sokoto (UDUTH) for treatment and was later confirmed dead,” a statement signed by the Public Relation Officer of the Command, ASP Ahmad Rufa’I, said. Relation Officer of the Command, ASP Ahmad Rufa’i said. Meanwhile,  The Governor of Sokoto State, Dr. Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto, has called on the people of the state to remain calm and law abiding at all times. The governor made the plea in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Mr. Abubakar Bawa, following an attack on Usman. The governor cautioned the people against any act capable of downgrading the personality of Prophet Muhammad, especially in a state like Sokoto which is a Muslim dominated community. Aliyu said that Sokoto people have so much respect and regard for Prophet Muhammad, hence the need for all the residents to respect and protect his dignity and personality. He said: “I want to call on the people of Sokoto State to avoid taking laws into their hands, instead, they should report any alleged crime or blasphemy to the appropriate quarters for necessary action. “Our religion does not encourage taking laws into one’s hand, so let us try to be good followers of our religion.”  The governor also said that the his administration would not take the issue of blasphemy lightly, and will deal decisively with anyone found guilty of any act aimed at  degrading the personality of Prophet Muhammad in line with the provision of Islamic laws. The governor also assured the people of his administration’s commitment to guarantee the safety of lives and property of all law abiding citizens. The governor also warned trouble makers to have a change of mind, adding that Sokoto is a wrong place for them.