Alex Enumah in Abuja  Justice Olufunke Anuwe of the Abuja division of the National Industrial Court (NIC) on Monday reiterated that her order of June 5, restraining the Nigeria Labour Congress ( NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) from embarking on their planned industrial action remains in force. Accordingly, Justice Anuwe ordered parties to maintain the status quo while adjourning hearing in the matter till July 20. Following an application by the federal government, the court had on June 5, issued an order halting organized labour from proceeding on a nationwide industrial action over the recent removal of fuel subsidy. The court, while ordering the service of its order as well as court processes on the defendants, fixed June 19 for hearing in the substantive matter. However, when the case was called, the federal government’s lawyer, Mr Ochum Emmanuel, told the court that he was prepared for the hearing of his client’s motion on notice as earlier scheduled. The suit is seeking for an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the defendants from embarking on a nationwide strike earlier slated for June 7. But the counsel to the defendants, Mr Marshall Abubakar, drew the court’s attention to an application he filed on behalf of NLC and TUC, praying the court to set aside its order of June 5, restraining them from embarking on strike. Abubakar further submitted that the claimant was served the application on June 8, only for them to turn around and serve on them a counter-affidavit on Monday in court. He added that the claimant filed the counter-affidavit on June 16 and instructed the bailiff not to serve them until Monday in court. However, following a little discrepancy over service of the court processes, the matter was adjourned to July 20 for parties to resolve the issue. Besides, the court directed the defendants to enter their memorandum of appearance and instructed parties to maintain the status quo. President Bola Tinubu, while delivering his inaugural speech, had announced the removal of fuel subsidy; the announcement led to an astronomical increase in pump price of fuel from around N195.00 to between N560 and N660 across the country. Responding, the organized labour mobilized its members for a showdown with the government but could not proceed because of the order of the court.