Adibe Emenyonu in Benin City Former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in the 2020 gubernatorial election in Edo State, Mr. Kenneth Imansuangbon, was yesterday received as a member of the Labour Party (LP) in the state. Also received into the party fold is the former Edo Commissioner for Youths and Humanitarian Affairs, Mr. Andrew Emwanta and former Education Executive during Adams Oshiomhole administration, daughter of late Dr. Samuel Ogbemidia, Mrs. Amen Ogbemudia-Uhumwangho, and others. At the party’s secretariat, Chairman of LP, Kelly Ogbaloi, while receiving Imansuangbon and others, gave them the party cards, signifying they have joined the party in the state, haven formalised joining the party at their various ward and local government levels. Speaking on behalf of others, Imansuangbon said they joined LP to release  the average Edo electorate from the clutches of poverty and new godfather. He explained that message is that for 20 years, he sought to serve Edo people when he began his political sojourn under Grace Group,  Action Democratic Congress (ACD),  Action Congress (AC), to PDP, and now to LP, adding, however, that with all his good intentions, few people refused to allow the will of the people to prevail. He said in spite of these shortcomings, he remained grateful to the people of the state who remained one of the finest species God created under heaven. He said: “ I have done my best for Edo people and I am thankful that I am an Edo man.  Now, my eyes are now opened, I have decided to take my case in 2024 to God Almighty and to Edo people. I do not want to put my case in the hands of godfathers anymore. I am tired of the oppression of godfathers, I am tired of the pain of godfathers, I am tired of the godfathers’ deception and trick, I want to take my faith and my destiny and put into God’s hands as well as the hands of the people of Edo State. “With God and Edo people, my 2024 is sure. So, I am not bothered what the godfathers are planning, I am bothered about where they have failed us in the past. I am bothered about the resolution of the people. The people will be on my side, hence the people are on my side, God is on my side. According to him, he has  decided to go to the people’s party which is the LP and the “obidient” family. “Let the people decide, let the people lead, let the people show the way, let the people’s voice count. We can no longer allow one man out of five million people to decide our fate. It is not going to happen in 2024. I pray that LP will get it right, and if they do get it right and give me the ticket, Obaseki and Oshiomhole should know that their game is up. When I say their game is up, I mean it is over,” Imansuangbon declared.