Olawale Ajimotokan  in Abuja The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) will on Saturday organise a Send-Forth dinner for the World Cup-bound Senior Women National Team, Super Falcons, ahead of the team’s departure from the country to participate in the 9th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals taking place in Australia and New Zealand, 20 July – 20 Augustthis year. Wife of the President, Senator (Mrs) Oluremi Tinubu will lead a choice cast of eminent political chieftains and top government functionaries, which will include the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Sports and Youth Development, Alhaji Ismaila Abubakar and his counterpart in the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development.p A good number of the playing body, as well as technical and administrative officials, are expected alongside the hierarchy and rank and file of the NFF, led by the President, Ibrahim Musa Gusau and the General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi. The event at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja will also attract corporate chieftains, members of the diplomatic corps and a range of football stakeholders. On Sunday, the nine-time African champions will depart the shores of Nigeria for a 15-day camping programme in Australia, before they enter into camp for the tournament proper, with their base at Brisbane – which is also venue for two of their matches in the group phase. Nigeria’s first match of the finals is against Canada, at Melbourne’s Rectangular Stadium, on Friday, 21 July, before clashes with co-host nation Australia and Republic of Ireland on Thursday, 27 Julyand Monday, 31 Julyrespectively, at the Lang Park in Brisbane. Australia and New Zealand 2023 will be the biggest-ever FIFA Women’s World Cup finals in history, as it welcomes 32 teams – same number as featured in the men’s finals in Qatar last year. It is also the first to be hosted by two countries, and is the first-ever FIFA senior competition to be hosted by two countries in two different confederations: Australia is in the Asian confederation while New Zealand is in Oceania. Nigeria’ captain Onome Ebi will be one of the oldest players at the tournament, at 40, alongside Brazil’s Marta and Canada’s Christine Sinclair. The three women will be featuring in their sixth FIFA Women’s World Cup tournament. Twenty-four hours before the Send-Forth at the Transcorp Hilton, the Australian High Commission, courtesy of the Ag. High Commissioner, Her Excellency Leanne Johnston, will host the Falcons to a dinner at the High Commission in Abuja.