Laleye Dipo in Minna A Minna Senior magistrate court in Niger state has sentenced a Police Inspector Gbenga Fajuyi to 22years in the Correctional Centre for Impregnating his 13-year-old daughter. Fajuyi was said to have been having carnal knowledge of his biological daughter from when she was 12 years of age until she became pregnant at 13 years. He was arraigned before Senior Magistrate Christy Barau on a three count charge of unlawful sexual intercourse, incest, impregnating a female student, and criminal intimidation contrary to section  18 (2) of the Niger State Child Right Law 2010, Section 390 25 (3), and 397 B of the penal code.  Fajuyi pleaded guilty to the charges brought against him but the court ignored his plea and asked for full trial of the convict. Police Prosecutor Inspector Lawrence Owette, told the court that Fajuyi, age 47, sometimes in 2019, in the Ungwan Nasarawa area of Tafa Local Government, lured his biological daughter, an SS1 student of Government Day Secondary School Sabon-Wuse, into his room and forcefully had sexual intercourse with her. Owette said as a result the girl was put in the family way and delivered a baby girl. The prosecution also submitted that Fajuyi warned his daughter not to inform anyone that he was responsible for the pregnancy or he will kill her. The prosecution further told the court that after the girl put to bed Fajuyi took the new born baby to a river where he strangled her to death and threw the remains into the river. In her Judgement, Senior Magistrate Christy Barau, described the police inspector as “a monster and a disgrace to the police force” adding that “It is sad that this convict, who is a police officer and law enforcement officer saddled with the responsibility of protecting lives and property or fighting crime in the society, will be involved in this type of crime” The magistrate wondered how Fajuyi could be so “inhuman towards his own biological daughter, a little girl, by putting her through all these horrible experiences of having to rape her at such a tender age, forcing her into becoming an adult, and denying her childhood.” Christy Barau sentenced Fajuyi to 22 years imprisonment without the option of fine, adding that the sentence should run concurrently.