Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi  The member representing Dass, Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Federal  constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon Jafaru Leko Dull, has pledged to operate an all-inclusive representation in order to foster more growth and development for the people of the three local government areas that make up the constituency. According to a press statement signed and made available to Journalists yesterday Leko Dull made the pledge during a special dinner organised for him shortly after his inauguration in Abuja recently. The statement said Hon Leko Dull, who succeeded the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon  Yakubu Dogara, promised to be fair and just to all the people as well as provide the needed dividends of democracy in all the nooks and crannies of the constituency. “Honourable Jafaru Gambo Leko Dull acknowledged that expectations are high on him from his constituents, assuring that the high expectations will not deter him from performing his duties effectively”,   the statement  added. The statement also said that the lawmaker is resolute and committed to meet the yearnings and aspirations of his  people by using his expertise as an economist to judiciously manage the resources that will be entrusted to him to provide the needed dividends of democracy to his constituents. It added said that the representatives member promised to carry the youths along in his leadership and  described them as  being  instrumental to his victory and success of every society and as such, he would  reciprocate the good gesture by providing them with employment opportunities, scholarships and skills acquisition programmes in order to become self-reliant. Hon Leko Dull, while soliciting for more unflinching support, prayers and advice to enable him succeed, noted that without the people, he cannot deliver alone. “Honourable Jafaru Gambo Leko Dull, thanked his parents, party leaders and followers, the youths and constituents for the support rendered to him and also expressed appreciation to them for going to Abuja to celebrate with him despite high cost of transport fares and other necessities of life,” Comrade Jumma said. The statement further added that, “Jafaru Gambo Leko Dull, prayed Almighty Allah to guide him in discharging this sacred mandate bestowed on him by the people, assuring that he would do everything possible to bring the dividends of democracy to them.” According to the statement, a stakeholder in the Jafaru Gambo Leko’s Movement, Alhaji Ya’u Soja, expressed delight for witnessing the inauguration of Leko and the rest of the national assembly members. Soja, urged the lawmaker to carry everybody along in his leadership, advising him on the need to touch the lives of his constituents positively. The press statement said in their goodwill messages on the occasion, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairmen of the three local governments, Umar Jibo (Cikaren Dass) Dass,  Honourable Manasseh I. Jingina for Bogoro, and Honourable Ladan Jambil for Tafawa Balewa, advised the lawmaker to justify the confidence reposed in him by the people. They wished the new lawmaker tremendous successes and prayed Almighty Allah to guide him in his leadership.