With streaming platforms competing for eyeballs and subscriptions with local content, Showmax’s decision to venture into original animation content with ‘Jay Jay: The Chosen One,’ marks a pivotal moment. It demonstrates the streamer’s forward-thinking approach to catering to a global audience hungry for varied and inclusive storytelling, Vanessa Obioha reports  In the highly competitive movie streaming industry, content is king, and Showmax, an African-owned streamer, is shaping the African storytelling landscape with its latest investment in animation. The animated series ‘Jay Jay: The Chosen One’ has quickly gained a cult following among young audiences since its premiere last April. It has not only ranked as the most streamed kids’ content on the platform in Nigeria but also in Ghana, Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda, surpassing popular international children’s shows such as ‘Sonic The Hedgehog 2,’ ‘Paw Patrol: The Movie,’ ‘Minions,’ ‘Kung Fu Panda’ and ‘Despicable Me.’ ‘Jay Jay: The Chosen One’ serves as the first Nigerian original animation series on Showmax. The series breathes new life into the iconic football legend Austin ‘Jay Jay’ Okocha’s story by reimagining him as an 11-year-old Nigerian schoolboy who dreams of representing his school at a prestigious football tournament and discovers his extraordinary abilities to communicate with animals and using his “magic football” to protect them from poachers. Beyond showcasing Jay Jay’s talent, charisma, and impact on Nigerian and international football to youngsters who may not be familiar with his legend, the series serves as an enlightening tool on forest conservation, and climate change awareness. Showmax incorporates onscreen messages to amplify the message of environmental protection. Thus, the captivating and accessible format of the series aims to educate and inspire young viewers about Jay Jay’s extraordinary legacy and the importance of preserving nature. This is seen in the first episode where the audience is first introduced to Austin who not only realises his innate ability to hear and understand animals’ language but stands up to bullies who tried to intimidate his friends as well as showcase his football skills.  Home to many local and international TV shows and films, Showmax’s venture into animation speaks volumes of its understanding of the diverse backgrounds of its audience. In the past few years, animation has recorded significant growth on the continent, with storytellers using it as a medium to bring historic indigenous tales to life. As of 2022, the African animation market size reached US$ 12.3 Billion according to a research study by the market research group, International Market Analysis Research and Consulting Group (IMARC Group). It estimates the market growth will reach US$ 13.2 Billion by 2028, exhibiting a growth rate (CAGR) of 8% during 2023-2028. To be sure, animation is not entirely new to the continent. Niger-born Moustapha Allasane whose works date back as far as 1962 is often recognised as the Godfather of African animation. However, the number of African animators is not as countless as sands, perhaps due to the lack of financial support given to content creators playing in that field. But as the Executive Head of Content, and West Africa Channels, at MultiChoice, Tejumola Busola noted, the company is looking to invest in that genre and support animators across the continent, Nigeria particularly. With streaming platforms competing for eyeballs and subscriptions with local content, Showmax’s decision to venture into original animation content with ‘Jay Jay: The Chosen One,’ marks a pivotal moment. It demonstrates the streamer’s forward-thinking approach to catering to a global audience hungry for varied and inclusive storytelling. And what better channel to do this than through animation whose visual appeal enhances the captivating nature of stories? The deliberate use of popular colloquial terms such as ‘gbamsolutely’ enhances the authenticity of its storytelling. By incorporating an original animation series such as  ‘Jay Jay: The Chosen One,’ the platform showcases its commitment to embracing cultural diversity and promoting narratives that resonate with different regions.  Since its launch, the streamer has been intentional in how it tells its stories, adopting the strategic way of making local stories go global and meeting its diverse audience in their various cultural domains. Showmax’s commitment to cultural diversity and regional narratives is evident through its investment in local content that celebrates cultural heritage and transcends borders. One of the most compelling aspects of “Jay Jay: The Chosen One” is its ability to introduce a revered historical figure to a new generation. Celebrated for his extraordinary football skills, Jay Jay might be unknown to many youngsters. Introducing him as an 11-year-old that goes through an adventure that teaches him valuable life lessons is a brilliant way of showcasing the heroic skills that the football legend has been accustomed to in his active years of football. The series not only expands the platform’s reach to a broader demographic but also fosters cultural appreciation, representation, and knowledge among its viewers.   ‘Jay Jay: The Chosen One’ represents a significant milestone in Showmax’s commitment to diverse storytelling. Through embracing cultural diversity, captivating young hearts and minds, and introducing a new generation to the remarkable legacy of Jay Jay Okocha, Showmax showcases its dedication to entertainment that transcends boundaries. The series serves as a testament to the streamer’s role in shaping the African storytelling landscape and its ongoing efforts to diversify its content slate.