Raheem Akingbolu The Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund has announced a partnership with Air Peace and Stanbic IBTC Bank as co-sponsors of the Maltina Teacher of the Year competition. The Company Secretary, Uaboi Agbebaku, who represented the Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Hans Essaadi, made the announcement at the flag-off ceremony for the ninth edition of the competition in Lagos. Agbebaku, who said the competition was aimed at rewarding teachers’ efforts and inspiring them to continue making a positive impact, further stated that Air Peace and Stanbic IBTC Bank were brought on board as co-sponsor to deepen the initiative. “This is the ninth edition of the competition, but unlike the previous editions where the Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund was the sole sponsor, we are delighted to announce that this year, we have commenced opening up potential partnership with firms who share in our vision and mission for the initiatives,” he said. Also, Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Sade Morgan, said all secondary teachers in both public and private schools are encouraged to participate in the competition. Morgan said: “There is no doubt that this competition has done a lot to lift the spirit of Nigerian teachers. In the last eight years, we have succeeded in providing a new narrative for the teaching profession in Nigeria. Our teachers are now proud to be associated with teaching, and we are encouraging the next generation of teachers to be passionate about the profession.” Morgan disclosed that the overall winner would receive a cash prize of N6.5 million, a trophy and capacity development training opportunity, while the winner’s school would receive either a computer laboratory or a block of classrooms.Head of Corporate Communications, Air Peace, Stanley Olisa, said they were delighted to partner with Nigerian Breweries on the laudable initiative to reward and celebrate teachers to achieve better impact in the classrooms. He further pledged the commitment of Air Peace to continue to support the Maltina Teacher of the Year competition. Representative of Stanbic IBTC Bank, Nnenna Okoro, who is Head, Consumer Sector and Client Coverage, commended the firm and the Foundation for remaining committed to the initiative.