•Urges citizens to have faith in country, themselves  •Prays for victory in battle against insurgency •Our govt will address infrastructure deficit, says Shettima  •Saraki, Lagbaja, Obi, govs, others salute Muslims at Sallah •Sanwo-Olu wants people united behind president Deji Elumoye, Chuks Okocha in Abuja, Olusegun Samuel in Yenagoa, Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo in Umuahia, Hammed Shittu in Ilorin, Laleye Dipo in Minna, and Ibrahim Oyewale in Lokoja President Bola Tinubu, at the Eid prayer ground, yesterday in Lagos, vowed that on his watch the country would experience peace, stability, and prosperity. Tinubu appealed to the citizens to have faith in God. Speaking to newsmen after observing the Eid-el-Kabir prayers at Dodan Barracks prayer ground in Obalende, Lagos, the president, according to a release by his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Communication and Strategy, Mr Dele Alake, prayed for victory of Nigerian troops in battle against insurgency. The president stressed the need for unity and cooperation, and he appealed to Nigerians to eschew ethnic and religious rivalries. On his part, the vice president, Senator Kashim Shettima, promised that the government would address the country’s infrastructure deficit. At the same time, Lagos State Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat, who spoke on behalf of his principal, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, urged the people to unite behind Tinubu in his determination to make the country better. Former President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki; the new Chief of Army Staff, Major General Taoreed Lagbaja; Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate, Peter Obi; and governors, among others, felicitated with Muslims across the country for another successful Sallah celebration. Tinubu stated that Allah would not burden the country with what it could not bear. He said, “I thank Almighty Allah for keeping us in good health till today and pray to Him to grant us robust health and prosperity. “May our sacrifices turn to prosperity. We have to make the sacrifices and that is clear, we have to. “But Allah will not give you a burden that you cannot carry. He is there for us. We must have faith in the country. Have faith in ourselves, believing that as citizens of this country, we must join hands to build the nation. “No religious identity, no tribal identity, let us live with one another in joy and prosperity. Nigeria will see peace, stability and God will grant peace to those of us at the warfront.” The president also prayed for Nigerian troops in the frontline in the fight against insurgency, saying it is his earnest desire and that of the country that they emerge victorious. Hamzat, who spoke for Sanwo-Olu, felicitated Muslims across Nigeria and in the state, particularly, for the joy of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration. He said, “It is our duty to pray for our leaders. We must pray for our president that God should help him to succeed in the task before him.” The Eid prayer, which started at 9am, was led by Chief Imam of Lagos State, Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abu-Nolah.   The chief imam later performed the obligatory slaughtering of ram at the Eid prayer ground in celebration of the significance of the noble act of Prophet Ibrahim in total obedience to Allah’s command.  The prayer was attended by Chief of Staff to the President, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; National Security Adviser, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu; and former Governor of Lagos State and immediate past Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, who turned 60 years yesterday. Others were Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, and a former Nigerian High Commissioner to Ghana, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, among other top government officials and politicians. Meanwhile, Tinubu will today pay courtesy visits to three first class traditional rulers in Ogun State. They are Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Kayode Adetona; Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo; and Olu of Ilaro,  Oba Kehinde Gbadewole Olugbenle. The three royal fathers, who represent the three senatorial districts in the Gateway state, would receive the president at their palaces at different times. The first port of call, THISDAY learnt, would be the Awujale Palace, followed by that of Alake and Olu, respectively. The president will during the visits appreciate the royal fathers for their support to his one-month old administration as well as canvass their continued cooperation towards making their areas and the entire country uncomfortable for criminal activities. Shettima: Our Govt Will Address Nation’s Infrastructure Deficit Vice President Kashim Shettima assured the people that the President Bola Tinubu administration would give prompt attention to addressing the country’s infrastructure deficit. Shettima made the pledge on Wednesday while paying Sallah homage to the Shehu of Borno, His Royal Highness, Abubakar Ibn Garbai El-Kanemi, in Maiduguri. He expressed hope that the infrastructure challenges in the country, including construction of the Gamboru Ngala, Dikwa and well as Damboa roads in Borno State, would be addressed. The vice president, who spoke with newsmen after the Sallah homage said, “We went with His Excellency, the governor, to pay homage to the Royal Highness, the Shehu of Borno. He raised some very poignant issues facing the society, especially with regard to infrastructure deficit. “We conveyed to him the best wishes from President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The Shehu talked about issues concerning the roads that should be immediately address, especially the Gamboru Ngala and Dikwa roads. Certainly, it would be addressed; that of Damboa will also be addressed. “I am here to assure him (the Shehu) of the maximum support of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu. All the challenges confronting us, we will survive it as a people.” In his remarks, the governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Zulum, extolled the virtues of the vice president, saying he is a man of the people and a grassroots politician. Zulum added that being the first visit of Shettima to the state as voce-president, “the visit is very important to Borno people and it is a home coming for our son.” The Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Ibn Garbai El-Kanemi, who spoke in Kanuri, described Shettima as a worthy son of Borno State, stressing that the love the vice president enjoyed reflected in the massive support the people gave him. At the Eid ground, Shettima prayed for the country’s unity and progress. According to a release by Director of Information in the governor’s office, Mr Olusola Abiola, Shettima observed the Eid prayers at the National Eid ground, Abuja, in the company of  Speaker House of Representatives, Hon. Tajudeen Abbas, and Deputy Senate President, Senator Barau Jibrin, among other faithful. He called on Nigerians to imbibe the virtues of sacrifice and forgiveness, and prayed for the unity and progress of the country. Saraki Urges Muslims to Intensify Prayers for Nigeria Former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, congratulated Muslims around the world on this year’s Eid-El-Kabir festival. Saraki urged Muslims to continue to pray to Allah to intervene in the affairs of the country. The former senate president urged Muslims to pray for the restoration of peace, unity, prosperity, security, and development across Nigeria. In a Sallah message from his media office in Abuja, signed by Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki noted the significance of the Eid-El-Kabir festival. He said it symbolised the test of faith of Prophet Ibrahim, who was the origin of the world’s biggest religions, and urged all Muslims to borrow some of the attributes of the man known as the father of faith. Saraki said, “Prophet Ibrahim demonstrated unflinching faith in Almighty Allah and his creator compensated him by making him the father of the most prosperous nations today. He demonstrated patriotism by praying to Allah to bless his land and his forbears that will come from generations after him. Today, we can see the manifestation of Prophet Ibrahim’s prayers in the prosperity of the lands occupied by his offspring. “It is for this reason that I use this occasion to call on Nigerians to also continue to pray for our country. We need to continue to request our creator to turn things around for the better in Nigeria. We need God to help us conquer our economic, political, social, and security challenges.” Lagbaja with Troops, Hails Sacrifice in Combating Security Threats Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Major General Taoreed Lagbaja, yesterday, expressed appreciation to troops of the Nigerian Army for their commitment and sacrifice towards combating emerging security challenges in the theatres of operation across the country. Lagbaja spoke as part of his goodwill message to troops and their families to mark the Muslim Eid -El-Kabir festival. Expressing gratitude to the Almighty God for His protection and guidance, the army chief pointed out that the Eid-el-kabir festival represented the virtues of sacrifice and submission to the will of the Almighty God, as exemplified by Prophet Abraham and emulated by Prophet Muhammed. According to him, the season brings to memory the supreme sacrifice officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army make on a daily basis to ensure the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the nation is preserved at all times. He added that the celebration embodied courage, selfless service, discipline, integrity, respect for others and loyalty, which he described as the core values of the army. A statement issued by Nigerian Army Headquarters said Lagbaja “urged the troops to leverage the spirituality of the occasion to pray for the army as it strives to combat security challenges in all theatres operations across the country”. Obi Fetes Anambra Muslims, Sues for Peace, Unity Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP), Mr Peter Obi, yesterday, celebrated the Eid al Adha with the Anambra Muslim Community in Onitsha. Obi called on Nigerians to embrace peace, unity and brotherly love. Obi, who was visited at his residence by leaders of Anambra Muslim Community, said he decided to celebrate the Eid al Adha with the Muslim community in Anambra to show the brotherly love and unity that should exist among Nigerians, irrespective of tribal, political or religious beliefs. He said he wanted to start fulfilling his promise of helping to renovate the Awka and Onitsha mosques. Obi said, “We are all Nigerians, and we will continue to live as one irrespective of our religious or political beliefs. What we owe each other is brotherly love and care, so we can live in peace and unity as a nation. We have no other nation but Nigeria and we must make it work. “I know that times are difficult for everybody in the country, but if we rise above our religious, political and ethnic divisions, we will be able to surmount our challenges in unity. We will not give up on our nation, but continue to work for a New Nigeria that will be beneficial to every Nigerian.” The Sarki of Awka Muslim Community, Alhaji Garba Haruna, said they were thrilled by Obi’s simplicity and consistency. Haruna said the LP presidential candidate had once again demonstrated that he was a truly detribalised Nigerian, by making out time to mark their Sallah celebration with them. Diri Greets Muslims, as Bayelsa Ummahs Endorse His Re-election Bid Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, congratulated the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria, particularly, in the state on this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration. Diri, in a statement by his spokesperson, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, yesterday, urged Muslim adherents to use the festival to renew their faith in their creator and in the unity of the country. Diri noted that Eid-el-Kabir was a feast of love, selflessness and sacrificial giving. He called on Muslims and other citizens in Bayelsa State to continue to live in peace and brotherliness. In a related development, the Muslim community in Bayelsa State threw their weight behind Diri’s second term bid, alongside and his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo. The Muslim Ummah gave their endorsement at a special banquet put together for the Muslim faithful by the Bayelsa State government to mark the Eid-el Kabir celebration at Government House, Yenagoa, on Wednesday. Chairman of the Council for Islamic Affairs in the state, Alhaji Yakubu Otobo, said the Muslim Ummah were fully supporting the governor’s re-election bid in view of the numerous verifiable infrastructural projects his administration had successfully executed in the state. Mbah Promises Enugu Muslim Community Inclusive government Enugu State Governor, Dr. Peter Mbah, used the opportunity of the Eid-el-Kabir festival to visit the Muslim Ummah at the Islamic Centre, Uwani, and Central Mosque, Owerri Road, Enugu, to celebrate with them. Mbah reiterated that the state was for everyone, and emphasised his commitment to his campaign promises. The governor stressed that Enugu metropolis would begin to enjoy pipe borne water again within the next 150 days. The Muslim faithful in the state commended the governor for tackling insecurity head-on. They said they were impressed that he identified and celebrated with the entire Muslim Ummah. Describing Enugu as a foremost cosmopolitan city in Nigeria, Mbah told the Muslim community, “You are an integral part of us. When you are celebrating, we are celebrating, and when you are in pains, we are also in pains because in Enugu State, we are one people. “You will see in Enugu people from the North, West, Middle Belt, and the Niger Delta that the umbilical cords of their great grandparents were buried in our soil.” Otti Lauds Abia Muslims for Helping to Birth New Government Abia State Governor, Mr. Alex Otti, expressed gratitude to Muslims in the state for the part they played in birthing his administration. In his maiden Sallah message, Otti rejoiced with all Muslims across Nigeria on this year’s celebration of the Eid el Kabir festival. “I particularly rejoice with the Muslim community in Abia State as they join millions of other faithful world wide to mark this most important religious feast in the Islamic calendar,” Otti said, in a statement he personally signed. He described this year’s Eid el Kabir celebration as “remarkable for us in Abia, being the first in the life of this administration”. The governor used the occasion to specially thank the Abia Muslim community for their “immense support”. He said, “I believe that our government is the answer to the many years of supplication to Almighty God by the people of Abia State and their yearnings for a credible leader that would lead them out of bondage and into a glorious era of socio-economic freedom and abundance.” Bello Tasks Muslims to Embrace Spirit of Sacrifice, Generosity Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, extended heartfelt congratulations to Muslim Ummah around the globe as they marked this year’s Eid-el-Kabir. In his Sallah message he personally signed, Bello said, “Today, let us draw inspiration from the exemplary virtues demonstrated by Prophet Ibrahim: his sacrifice, patience, steadfastness, generosity, and unwavering obedience to Allah’s command and constituted authority. “These qualities should guide us as we face the contemporary challenges of nation-building, reminding us of our shared heritage and the destiny of national greatness that awaits the people of Kogi State, both within and outside the country. “The progress we have achieved in the past seven years would not have been possible without the sacrifices, understanding, and commitment of our citizens. It is their unwavering support that has propelled us forward. “In my first term as Governor of Kogi State, the pursuit of harmony, cohesion, unity, security, political stability, progress, equity, justice, and above all, prosperity were the cornerstones of our administration. These principles continue to define my leadership, policy and programmes of our administration in this second term.” NGF Urges Nigerians to Remain Brothers’ Keepers Kwara State Governor and Chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, urged Nigerians, irrespective of their political leanings, to be their brothers’ keepers and work for the unity and development of the country. AbdulRazaq stated this in Ilorin shortly after observing his two Eid Kabir rakkats at Ilorin Eid Central Praying Ground to mark the Eid Kabir celebrations. The event was witnessed by millions of Muslim faithful, who thronged the Eid prayer ground. The governor joined several other dignitaries at the central praying ground, where the Imam, Imale Sheikh Abdullahi AbdulHameed, led the proceedings. He said, “We must first glorify Almighty Allah for allowing us to witness another Eid. Those that went to Hajj, we pray to Allah to bring them back safely. Our strength lies in our unity, and we should maximize such unity and peace that we enjoy to bring more development to our state. “Our main message is for peace and tranquillity. Let’s be our brothers’ keepers. We all have hope in this country to attain greater heights.” Obaseki Urges Tolerance, Sacrifice to Sustain Nation’s Progress Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, urged Nigerians to work together in unison, irrespective of their ethno-religious inclinations, to ensure the country’s progress. The governor, in a statement to mark the Eid-el-Kabir festivities, urged Muslim faithful to imbibe the lesson of sacrifice, which he said was the hallmark of the season. Obaseki stated, “I felicitate with our Muslim brothers and sisters as we mark the Eid-el-Kabir festivities. As we celebrate Eid-el-Kabir, I urge everyone to imbibe the lesson of sacrifice, which is the hallmark of this season. Let us endeavour to deepen our relationship with God and enhance our service to humanity as we reflect on the lessons of this celebration. “I enjoin everyone to rededicate ourselves to our Creator, working assiduously to sustain the virtues of patience, tolerance and love. We are in dire straits as a nation, but it is a period that demands that we work together in unison and join hands across ethno-religious inclinations for our collective progress. “We are working closely with security authorities to ensure our Muslim faithful have a peaceful celebration.” Niger Acting Governor, Aliyu, Minna Emir, Others Pray at Sallah Niger State Acting Governor, Comrade Yakubu Garba; Emir of Minna, Dr Umar Faruoq Bahago; and former Governor Babangida Aliyu, were among prominent personalities that offered prayers at the Minna Eid prayer ground, yesterday, to mark this year’s Eid-el-Kabir. The two rakkat prayer was led by Chief Imam of Minna Central Mosque, Alhaji Abu Fari. Fari admonished Muslims to continue to be their brothers’ keepers and work for the peace and progress of the state and the country as a whole. Speaking with newsmen after the prayers, Garba emphasised the need for peaceful coexistence among the people, despite their diversity, saying without peace there would be no development. He observed that the people had high expectation from the government and assured them that the administration would not let them down. Aliyu applauded the federal government for the removal of fuel subsidy, which he stated was hitherto being used to service other things rather than providing for Nigerians. He said,   “Any subsidy that does not go to the beneficiaries should be removed.” Aliyu, who appealed to wealthy Muslims to assist those who did not have in order to ameliorate their hardships, also enjoined the people to support the state government for it to succeed in the task of taking the state to greater height.