Mary Nnah Apperito, a premium bitter aperitif from Grand Oak Limited, has won an award for Africa’s Most Innovative Premium Bitter Appetiser Beverage at the African Brand Innovators Summit (AFRIBIS) 2023, for raising the bar on product innovation and excellent service delivery. The event which took place in Lagos, Nigeria during the weekend brought together prominent corporate bodies, industry leaders and innovators from across Africa to celebrate and recognise exceptional brands that are raising the bar in their respective industries. Director, Prime Business, Grand Oak Limited, Stanley Obi, attributed the brand’s success to the team’s approach to innovation in the past years, reiterating its role as a key ingredient in the brand’s smooth progression and success in the market. He said, “Our approach to leveraging innovation and resolve to deliver an all-round drinking experience, always stands out. We adopt the best practices from across the globe to deliver quality beverages, like our premium bitter aperitif, and unique wholesome experiences. Similar to all of our beverages, we ensure that every drop of the Apperito leaves our consumers with a reason to come back for more.”  The recognition at AFRIBIS 2023 further solidifies Grand Oak Limited’s position as a leader in the alcoholic beverage industry and affirms its dedication to delivering exceptional products that elevate consumers’ drinking experience.    Speaking on the company’s relentless efforts to keep producing a spirit aperitif of impeccable quality, Temitope Benjamin, Business Brand Manager – Calypso & Apperito, Grand Oak Limited said, “Apperito, as a unique alcoholic beverage, has been crafted to deliver a taste of two worlds to consumers who would like to create their own experiences. Whether sweet or bitter, you will love it”.  “This award reflects the business’s dedication to delivering on its promise of bringing an enjoyable experience to consumers. This promise is ingrained in the most minute processing detail of the aperitif and serves as a reminder of why we need to keep innovating to ensure that our consumers love and want Apperito.” Benjamin noted. Grand Oak Limited has captivated the market with its premium bitter aperitif – Apperito, characterized by its distinctive red colour, intense aroma, unique flavour and pleasantly bittersweet flavour, all of which have garnered widespread appreciation and recognition among consumers. This remarkable achievement showcases Apperito’s commitment to excellence in product innovation and superior customer experience.