President Bola Tinubu’s recent appointment of security chiefs to reflect Nigeria’s geopolitical spread and religious diversity, in line with the Federal Character Principle, is a bold step that will not only facilitate the healing of national wounds but also address the insecurity nationwide, Ejiofor Alike reports There were jubilations last Monday in different parts of the country from the southern Kaduna to the Middle Belt, South-west, South-east and some other parts of the country following the appointment of new security chiefs and the Inspector General of Police (IG) by President Bola Tinubu. Before President Tinubu appointed the six security chiefs and the IG, the composition of Nigeria’s security architecture was lopsided and heavily skewed in favour of a particular section of the country and a particular religion due to former President Muhammadu Buhari’s nepotism. For eight years, former President Buhari had flagrantly flouted the Federal Character Principle with impunity. With most of the security chiefs coming from one section of the country, the law enforcement agencies were believed to have treated the killer herdsmen in southern Kaduna, the Middle Belt, South-east and some parts of the South-west with kid gloves. By reflecting the Federal Character in his appointments, Tinubu has commenced the process of healing the wounds inflicted on Nigerians by Buhari’s nepotism, which divided Nigerians along ethnic and religious lines. Many Nigerians experienced a sigh of relief when the president sent the former Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen General Farouk Yahaya; Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo and the IG, Baba Alkali, to compulsory retirement. Subsequently, Tinubu appointed Maj. Gen. Christopher Musa as the new Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Maj. Gen. Taoreed Abiodun Lagbaja as Chief of Army Staff, Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ikechukwu Ogalla, Chief of Naval Staff and Air Vice Marshal Hassan Bala Abubakar as Chief of Air Staff. Also appointed was Mallam Nuhu Ribadu as the National Security Adviser (NSA), while Deputy Inspector General of Police Kayode Egbetokun was named the Acting Inspector-General of Police (IG). Maj. Gen. EPA Undiandeye was appointed the Chief of Defence Intelligence.  Many believe that the appointment of Musa as the new CDS will bring great relief to the people of southern Kaduna and the Middle Belt whose areas became killing fields during the eight years administration of Buhari. Buhari’s eight years’ tenure was a nightmare to the people of southern Kaduna who were massacred daily by foreign herdsmen who were allegedly on a land-grabbing mission. Former governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai ‘s utterances did not help matters as they triggered suspicion that the killings were allegedly carried out to wipe out the predominantly Christian-dominated areas. Musa is an indigene of Zangon Kataf LGA in southern Kaduna. The events of the next few months will determine if Musa can effectively protect the endangered people of southern Kaduna. The new Chief of Army Staff, Major General Lagbaja, who hails from Ilobu in Irepodun LGA of Osun State is known to be a fearless and courageous military commander who degraded the bandits, cattle rustlers, and terrorists that operated mostly in Kaduna, Niger, Kebbi, and other North-west states. Being an indigene of the South-west zone where the atrocities committed by the armed herdsmen had forced the likes of Sunday Igboho to rise against the state and agitate for the Yoruba Nation, Lagbaja will have a onerous task of dealing decisively with the bandits that invaded his geopolitical zone and other parts of the country. Tinubu’s appointment of Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ikechukwu Ogalla, erstwhile Director Lessons Learnt (DLL), Naval Headquarters, as the new Chief of Naval Staff was a sharp departure from Buhari’s presidency, which did not consider the South-east for any position as service chiefs or the IG for eight years. Before his appointment, Ogalla, who hails from Enugu Ezike, Igbo Eze North LGA Enugu State, was responsible for collating and analysing previous the navy’s operations and activities with the objective of drawing lessons necessary for doctrinal and operational improvements. He broke the record in the Nigerian Navy (NN) on many fronts. First, he is the first CNS from the Hydrography Department in the NN. Second, he was never a Commanding Officer (CO) of any sea going ship. Third, he was never a Flag Officer Commanding (FOC). With his appointment, the South-east has been given a sense of belonging. It remains to be seen whether or not his appointment will end the violent agitations in the region.  Air Vice Marshal Abubakar, who hails from Shanono LGA in Kano State, was appointed the Chief of Air Staff (CAS). His appointment was a reflection of the importance Tinubu attaches to Kano State and the North-west in general, which is being ravaged by bandits. The new IG, Olukayode Egbetokun Adeolu, hails from Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun State. Speaking on his new appointment, Egbetokun said: “Now that I have just been decorated…I really can’t describe how I feel presently, but I feel like a tiger inside of me right now, ready to chase away all the criminals in Nigeria.” Being from the South-west with the Chief of Army Staff, the new IG is expected to behave like a tiger and run bandits, killer herdsmen and other criminal elements not only out of the region but also the entire country. Tinubu also appointed a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, as the National Security Adviser (NSA).  This development was an indication that Tinubu is determined to reform the country’s security architecture by returning intelligence to the police, which are the first line of defence. Ribadu hails from Adamawa State in the North-east ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency. While the police are in charge internal security globally, successive administrations had been appointing the NSA from the military since 1999. This is why with Ribadu’s appointment, Tinubu has corrected the anomaly. Nigeria’s new Chief of Defence Intelligence, Maj. Gen. EPA Undiandeye hails from Bedia in Obudu Local Government Area of Cross River State. The inability of security agencies to tackle violent crimes across the country is due to poor intelligence gathering. Undiandeye is expected to oversee and coordinate the intelligence activities in the Nigerian armed forces to end the violent activities of non-state actors.