Perspective  By Emmanuel Njoku The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals three and four, emphasise the importance of inclusive and sustainable education and well-being for all. Quality education for all is fundamental to creating a peaceful and prosperous world. Similarly, promoting healthy lifestyle and well-being at all ages is essential to sustainable development. It is estimated about 10.5 million of the country’s children aged 5-14 years are not in school. Similarly, health indicators in Nigeria are some of the worst in Africa. The Nigerian health care system is poorly developed, forcing many health officials to seek greener pastures abroad.  According to the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), over 10,200 doctors have abandoned Nigeria and now practicing in the UK. It is with a strong desire to bridge these gaps that the Emma Foundation was established. According to the foundation’s Chairman, Mr. Emmanuel Njoku, “we seek for an Africa where primary health care and education of every child is provided, and rural people live dignified, productive and prosperous lives.” Established in July, 2012, the foundation has left indelible imprints on the minds and hearts of many individuals and organisations. Precisely on October 15, 2022, the Emma Njoku Foundation donated 50 pews to Community School Eziala Nguru, Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area, Imo State. On the same day, the foundation also flagged off the Eziala Nguru road reconstruction and rehabilitation. The pew donation project was in line with the education objective of the foundation, while the road reconstruction was geared towards ameliorating the transportation challenges of the rural dwellers and further open up the economic space for easy mobility of goods and services. This too was in line with the humanitarian objective of the foundation and in response to the advice of former US President John F. Kennedy, “ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country.” Similarly, over 14 schools in Aboh Mbaise were distributed with back- to-school kits, as part of efforts to motivate pupils to resume school early. Friends of The Brain Club was also founded by the foundation in order to raise awareness about mental health and the need to encourage positive disposition, without stigmatisation and labelling, in supporting those with mental health issues. In recognition of his contribution towards human capital empowerment, infrastructural development, humanitarian support and improved mental health, the Emma Njoku Foundation was nominated and presented with the Africa Education Mental Health Advancement Ambassador award 2023. The event took place on the  March 24, 2023 in Rwanda.  Emmanuel Njoku is a consummate and dedicated executive with an exceptional entrepreneurial mindset. With sterling academic records and professional background, he continues to tower above his contemporaries, with businesses spanning across various continents. He renders bespoke services in health, renewables, energy, human resources management, law and several other fields of human endeavour. Conscientiously devoted to charitable causes, he is a visionary leader with proven track record of engineering organizational turn around. A pathfinder, innovator and a motivator, he also render services in the real estate and sits on the board of many companies in Nigeria and overseas. Emmanuel Njoku is the Managing Director of Prezzo Shed Investments Limited, a multinational company supporting the Nigerian and African healthcare sectors