Dike Onwuamaeze The Institute of Directors Nigeria (IoD Nigeria), has elected Mr. Tijjani Mohammed Borodo as president and chairman of its governing council. Following his election, Borodo would steer the ship of the foremost governance institute in Nigeria and take charge of its affairs for the next two years. His election, which took place recently, followed the expiration of the tenure of office of Dr. Ije Jidenma, as president and chairman of the governing council of the IoD Nigeria after she meritoriously served the institute for two years. The Director General/Chief Executive Officer of IoD Nigeria, Mr. Dele Alimi, said: “Borodo emerged as president after a duly conducted election at the institute’s 39th Annual General Meeting held on Thursday, June 22, 2023, at the institute’s secretariat, Ikoyi, Lagos.” Alimi added that Borodo, who is a fellow of the IoD Nigeria, is a distinguished lawyer and the pioneer company secretary of FBN Holdings Plc. He said: “Borodo is an astute boardroom executive who has served the institute previously in various capacities such as first vice president, second vice president, chairman, Finance and General-Purpose Committee, chairman, Membership and Branch Development Committee and honorary legal adviser among others.” The DG added that “indeed, we are very pleased as Mr. Tijjani Borodo assumes the role of the president of IoD Nigeria. As a previous office holder and council member of the institute, he had brought his extensive knowledge and experience to bear and has provided inspirational leadership and direction for the success of the Institute. “His emergence as the president will enhance the institute’s role as the leading corporate governance advocate, promoting sound ethical standards.” Borodo is the founder and principal partner at Tijjani M. Borodo & Associates Law Firm and an accomplished board executive of repute. He is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association, member of International Bar Association (IBA) and an alumnus of the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and University of Essex, United Kingdom. He is also an independent non-executive director at Cowry Asset Management Limited, Signature Bank Limited and Sanlam Life Insurance Nigeria Limited.