An Educationist and Director of Caleb Group of Schools, Dr. Ola Adebogun, has described the establishment of  the schools, as that which will reduce decadence in the nation’s education sector.  Adebogun, who made these remark recently, at a meeting with journalists in Lagos, noted that its  aim is to turn out morally and academically sound student who will uphold and promote the importance of personal values, have respect for individuals and their property, tell the truth, keep promises, ensure good manners and self- discipline. “Having been armed with a vision and inspiration derived from the enduring works of great Christian missionaries and educationists like George Muller, David Livingstone and others, Caleb Group of Schools came into existence with an aim to give all students sound academic training cum faultless moral polishing. ” The schools were not only solidly founded on the Christian ideals of yesteryears that once made education  highly priced, but to also provide succour to the falling standard in the educational system,”the director stated. He noted that for decades, the schools  have prepared  many students who have gained admission into the universities in Nigeria and abroad with well developed personal skills, self – confidence and the best academic qualifications within their scope. ” All our schools in Caleb group offer a competitive environment, that actively seeks to promote the achievement in every child, through  the opportunities and facilities such fully equipped science laboratories, modern libraries, well equipped music departments, moral counselling centres,  conducive learning environment, seasoned and tested educational personnels, among others, which we offer our students.” The Director, who appraised its achievements  since its take – off in 1986, said it’s enviable record, was a step in the right direction. He attributed the achievements to the efforts of  the staff and the group’s offer of balanced education that combines morals with quality teaching and industrial experience. ” At Caleb Group of Schools  godliness, innovation, service, integrity , team work, excellence and creativity are our core values and to all these, we give God all the glory”, Dr. Adebogun stated. Establishment of Caleb College will Reduce Decadence in Nigeria’s Education Sector, Says Adebogun  An Educationist and Director of Caleb Group of Schools, Dr. Ola Adebogun, has described the establishment of  the schools, as that which will reduce decadence in the nation’s education sector.  Adebogun, who made these remark recently, at a meeting with journalists in Lagos, noted that its  aim is to turn out morally and academically sound student who will uphold and promote the importance of personal values, have respect for individuals and their property, tell the truth, keep promises, ensure good manners and self- discipline. “Having been armed with a vision and inspiration derived from the enduring works of great Christian missionaries and educationists like George Muller, David Livingstone and others, Caleb Group of Schools came into existence with an aim to give all students sound academic training cum faultless moral polishing. ” The schools were not only solidly founded on the Christian ideals of yesteryears that once made education  highly priced, but to also provide succour to the falling standard in the educational system,”the director stated. He noted that for decades, the schools  have prepared  many students who have gained admission into the universities in Nigeria and abroad with well developed personal skills, self – confidence and the best academic qualifications within their scope. ” All our schools in Caleb group offer a competitive environment, that actively seeks to promote the achievement in every child, through  the opportunities and facilities such fully equipped science laboratories, modern libraries, well equipped music departments, moral counselling centres,  conducive learning environment, seasoned and tested educational personnels, among others, which we offer our students.” The Director, who appraised its achievements  since its take – off in 1986, said it’s enviable record, was a step in the right direction. He attributed the achievements to the efforts of  the staff and the group’s offer of balanced education that combines morals with quality teaching and industrial experience. ” At Caleb Group of Schools  godliness, innovation, service, integrity , team work, excellence and creativity are our core values and to all these, we give God all the glory”, Dr. Adebogun stated.