There are increasing concerns about how to address the growing challenges of the African child, even as June 16 is dedicated to the celebration of International Day of the African Child, writes Ugo Aliogo  Since 1991, the world has continued to celebrate the International Day of the African Child every year on June 16, which was an initiative of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) now African Union (AU). The event is set aside to mark those who participated in the Soweto Uprising in 1976. It also raises awareness of the continuing need for improvement of the education provided to African children. On June 16 every year, governments, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) international organisations and other stakeholders gather to discuss the challenges and opportunities facing the full realization of the rights of children in Africa. It is in this light of the foregoing that FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, makers of Peak milk, organised a virtual event tagged: ‘Nutrition for the African Child,” powered by Peak 456 milk in celebration of International Day of the African Child. The theme for the event is vital, since nutrition plays an important role in the growth and development of the body.  Studies have shown that the time between conception and age two years is the definitive period during which interventions to improve nutrition must be delivered. It is noted that poor diet/nutrition in early childhood can lead to deficiencies in essential vitamins and nutrients-such as Vitamin A deficiency which weakens a children immunity, increases the risk of blindness and lead to death from common childhood diseases like diarrhea. Experts have argued that poor child nutrition is known to be associated with poor survival outcomes and poor long-term outcomes such as school performance and wages in adulthood. The argument is that in the first 0-5 years after birth, rapid mental growth and development occured as the child’s brain creates complex neutral pathways at an unprecedented speed. By six years, the brain has developed to 90 per cent of adult size. (Thinking, learning, memory skills). The growth proceeds rapidly in early life, slows down in middle childhood and accelerates at puberty before the linear growth ceases. To bring deeper perspectives to the discourse, THISDAY spoke to a registered public nutritionist, Mrs. Chioma Ibeabuchi, who noted that as people get older, their brain’s ability to adapt to change reduces, making the first few years of a child’s life critical to their overall development and success in the future. She noted that children grew and develop rapidly in their first five years across the four main areas of development, which include motor (physical), language and communication, cognitive and social/emotional. Ibeabuchi revealed that cognitive development means how children think, explore and figure things out, adding that It is the development of knowledge, skills, problem solving and dispositions, which help children to think about and understand the world around them, “brain development is part of cognitive development.”  According to her, “Adequate nutrition during the first two years of life is crucial for proper brain development, as the brain grows rapidly during this period and reaches 75 percent of its adult weight. The brain requires essential nutrients such as fats, vitamins, and minerals to form connections and develop efficiently.” Nutrition and Brain Development Ibeabuchi averred that malnutrition during these early years can result in smaller brain size, as well as behavioural and cognitive deficiencies, noting that this can lead to delayed language development, poor fine motor skills, and poor academic performance.  She remarked that essential fats, such as DHA (omega-3 fatty acid) and choline, are crucial building blocks for the developing brain. “DHA and choline are required for the formation of myelin, which speeds up communication in the brain and makes it more efficient. A lack of these essential fats can have a significant impact on intelligence and behavior. It’s important to ensure that toddlers and older children receive them through a balanced diet of seeds, nuts, and fish,” she stated. Other studies revealed that Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an omega 3 fatty acid and it is key nutrient during infancy and early childhood. DHA is important because it supports both cognitive development and nervous system development. It is found in breast milk, and it is important both in utero and after birth. Food Nutrients The study revealed that as one of the unique brain supportive nutrients, iron is a micronutrient that is essential for developing brain because it helps carry oxygen to brain cells. The study also said adequate amount in during pregnancy and infancy is important for neurodevelopment, adding that the first 1000days of life (conception to 2years) – most important for brain development.  “Iron deficiency (ID and IDA)- most common micronutrient deficiency in children. Deficiencies leads to lower IQ, poorer cognitive function, depression, weakness, anxiety problems and social problems lasting up to adulthood. Iron requirement; 4-8years (10mg). Food sources: Leafy green vegetables, meat, iron fortified cereals, Milk- Peak 456 (fortified with Iron),” the study said.  Another study by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, stated that the most common nutrient deficiency in the U.S. is iron deficiency. The study said iron needs increase during rapid growth and development, especially in young children, adding that Iron-deficiency anemia in children can lead to cognitive and motor delays. According to a study by Erin Coleman, it was noted that most children in developed countries eat enough protein, adding that children following a vegan diet or children of neglect have an increased risk of developing protein malnutrition, or kwashiorkor.  “Good sources of protein for children include poultry, lean meat, eggs, dairy foods, legumes, nuts, peanut butter and seeds. If your child is younger than age 2, ask your paediatrician before offering him nuts, seeds and peanut butter, and avoid tough cuts of meat,” she said.  Coleman said calcium helps a child’s bones grow and develop normally; it is also responsible for muscle function, intracellular signalling, nerve transmission and hormone secretion, according to the Office of Dietary Supplements. She averred that calcium is abundant in dairy products such as milk, cheese, yogurt and cottage cheese, and calcium-fortified breakfast cereals and beverages, “the recommended daily intake of calcium is 1,000 milligrams for kids ages 4 to 8; and 1,300 milligrams per day for ages 9 to 18.” Experts’ Opinion On her part, Paediatrician and Nutritionist, Dr. Zainab Mimi Yaro, stated that DHA is an Omega 3 fatty acid and it is critical to the development of the brain and nervous system of children, adding that DHA is found in breast milk which is the primary source for babies.  She noted that as they grow older, they have to get it from other sources, such as eggs, fatty fish, fortified cereals, and other food supplements. In her words, “The human brain grows rapidly and significantly in the early years of the little human’s life. It plays a crucial role in the overall growth and future potentials. The left side of the brain does important task such as analysis, reasoning, logic, language and overall verbal capacity. While the right side does things like music, arts, imagination, emotion and overall creativity. Parents should try to give their children a better by having their optimum brain development and ensuring that milk enriched with DHA like Peak 456 is included in their diet.”    Public Nutritionist, Jamila Lawal, who spoke during an Instagram live session on ‘Nutrition for the African Child’, powered by Peak 456 milk in celebration of International Day of the African Child, said the event was marked every year since 1991 and was initiated by African Union (AU). She said the significance of the event is aimed at raising awareness about the educational of children in African, and bring to reality the challenges and opportunities facing the full realisation of the rights and privileges of children in Africa. Talking about the rights of the African Child, Lawal stated that children have special needs, apart from education, children deserve the right to be sheltered, right be in spaces and right to healthy and nourishing food. According to her, “Food is a fundamental human right and even for children as well. Children have right to the best healthcare, safe drinking water, healthy food and being in clean environment, so that they can develop in the best possible way and as care giver, it is our responsibility to provide nourishment and healthy food for them. Healthy nutrition is a right of the African child. We as caregivers and society should ensure that we do all we can to provide this nourishment and care for our children in order for them to be able to reach their full potential. Nutrition is very important through the life cycle of a child right from conception, it is as a result of this reason that expectant mothers are advised to take folio acid. Folio rich foods are so important because it can help prevent congenital diseases.” Expectant mothers are always encouraged to take iron rich foods, vegetables and others. Children need the right food to grow and develop to their full potential, so at every point in time, children need the right nourishment to reach their full potential. Poor dieting in early childhood can lead to negative consequences including vitamin A deficiency, which can lead to poor immunity, blindness, diarrhoea and others. Poor nutrition during childhood has a lot of negative side effects, Lawal further said.