Femi Solaja Multi-times African Footballer of the Year winner, Asisat Oshoala, has assured Nigerian football fans that the Super Falcons will excel beyond the expectations of many as the team nears final preparation for the 9th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals scheduled for next month in Australia and New Zealand. The Super Falcons will play host, Australia, Canada and Republic of Ireland at the group phase and will aim to cross the mandatory three-match into the knockout stage, a feat last achieved in I999 in USA when the team was eliminated in the quarter finals by Brazil. But yesterday, Oshoala said the narrative has changed going by the mind-set of the players in the team because everyone knows what is at stake and will not want to let the nation down at this crucial stage. “The narratives have changed now and we have many experienced players who are determined to use this global tournament to boost the fame of the nation and as well lift their respective blossoming careers. “We want to go out there in Green-White-Green colour of Nigeria and make millions of Nigerians proud. “We did not make it in the past beyond the group stage but the mind-set is quite different now going by the bonding in the team. I won’t be too optimistic of Nigeria winning the cup in August but we can go all the way to the final match which is not impossible. “A target of semi final is a good one but at every stage of the tournament brings fresh challenges and we want to key ourselves in that contest,” she pointed out. On her success with Barcelona Femeni and second UEFA Champions League success, she said it was a feeling that is still fresh in mind but attributes it to hard work and dedication. “It is not easy to be two goals down and come back to win, but we achieved it and it was also on record that we were runner-up in the same tournament twice in the space of three years. “However, the victory of last month no doubt had wiped off the sad memories of previous setbacks and I am looking forward to more glorious days with my team and my challenge now is that of Super Falcons who with the rest of my mates will aim to shock the world. “My teammates are already waiting for me and eager to celebrate my European success with them and I will be glad to do so as well going by the conversations on-going on our WhatsApp platform. “I can’t wait to reunite with all of them as we prepare to face the other best teams from other continents. I want to call on the media to do more for our women teams. “Its unfortunate that the Super Eagles missed out at the last World Cup finals in Qatar but with the Falcons ready to go all the way, I had expected that banners and other outdoor communication would have been all over the places but I was wrong and hoped in future tournaments things will change for the better,” she noted. She however expressed gratitude to corporate bodies and well-meaning individuals supporting women football compared to when she was coming up because today many young talents out there will have role models to look up to.