Tosin Clegg From a humble beginning in Lagos, Nigeria to her early days of cuisines exposure, Ajoke Adeosun Barakat popularly known today as Ajoke Alamala desires to take african meals to the world and gain its rightful acceptance.  With a food business started about five years ago she has risen over the years to become a household name for a lot of local dish lovers, serving variety of tasty options seasoned with timeless artistry of food making.  The dream for Ajoke is to make African dishes acceptable for everybody in the world. She notes that, “Despite the fact we are not Chinese we eat Chinese meals and we even go as far as eating tacos even as aren’t Mexicans.  “For me, I want  people to eat Amala the way we eat their food as well as eat other food options we make so as to take away the stereotype that only black people eat this or that. I just want African dishes to be recognized because our food is beautiful and gives a unique experience to it.” “ I want people to eat our local food as well as we eat theirs as african dish gives a unique experience. “in five years I see myself having to have managed my headquarters well enough to be able to run smoothly with or without me, so I can fully concentrate on working on outlets abroad. African dish tells a story and we need to tell the story to everyone in the world.” She added. The Ajoke Amala brand has vigorously pushed their menus to suit quality, class and value for money. With a variety of food options designed to savour its customers such as Ewagoyin, White rice and Ayoka sauce that was recently introduced. Ajoke further stated that, “Ayoka is my Mom’s name because the sauce is a recipe from my Mom so i named it after her. She has gone ahead to train my staff on how to cook it and it’s a sauce I would love all our customers to try out. We make Pounded Yam and Egusi, as well as Tapioca and Moi Moi but we have special days for them but our signature food that we make everyday is Amala as well as White Rice and Ayoka sauce. The idea is to push my brand big enough for local delicacies to be widely accepted in the hospitality industry.”