*Katsina Utd, Enyimba, Remo, Lobi, Yobe Stars complete field for playoff Kunle Adewale in Eket Rivers United and Katsina United yesterday at the Eket Township Stadium, Akwa Ibom,  completed the field for teams to participate in the Naija Super 8  Playoffs finals billed for the Mobolaji Johnson Arena in Lagos starting from July 7 through July 14th. In the battle for the South-South ticket between Rivers United and Bendel Insurance, it was an end-to-end football from the blast of the whistle till the end of the game.   As it happened when Rivers United became the first team this season to dent Bendel Insurance’s 18-game unbeaten run, the Pride of Rivers people again proved their victory in the NPL season-ending victory was no fluke, handing out another defeat to the Benin City team. It was no surprise when Rivers United drew the first blood in the 10th minute through Albert Korvah. The Federation Cup champions however equalised via a penalty converted by Dede Mogara.  The Pride of Rivers again shot into the lead by the scorer of the first goal-Korvah and the CAF Champios League campaigner would have extended their lead but for a smart save by Kola Oladipo in goal for the Benin Arsenal in the 57th.  Okon Ini-Obong scored what no doubt will be the goal of the Super 8 tournament as his spectacular volley brought Insurance back level in the 69th minute of game.  Just when the fans felt they will be witnessing the second penalty shootout of the tournament, a rash challenge by an Insurance’s defender left the centre referee with no choice than to give Rivers a penalty which was converted by Maurice Chukwu. Also yesterday, Katsina United defeat their more illustrious rival, Kano Pillars by a lone goal to grab the North West Zone ticket to the money spinning Naija Super 8. What would have been the first came of the game was squandered by Samson Olasofo in the 53rd minute as he missed a tap-in, reminisce of Yakubu Aiyegbeni’s missed chance  against South Korea at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. Olasofo however, made up for his earlier miss to scored a typical striker’s goal in the 83rd minute.  All efforts by Pillars to draw level and forced the game to penalty shootout proved abortive.  The six zonal champions, Katsina United, Lobi Stars, Enyimba, Remo Stars, Yobe Desert Stars and Rivers United will be joined by two wildcard teams to be picked by the tournament organisers.  Draws for the Naija Super 8 finals will be held on 29 June, live on SuperSport, while the tournament will be held at the Mobolaji Johnson Arena in Lagos from 7-16 July. THE SIX QUALIFIED TEAMS Rivers United Remo Stars Lobi Stars  Yobe Desert Stars Enyimba Katsina United *They are to be joined by the two teams to be given wild card entrance TRANSFER NEWS…TRANSFER NEWS… *KOULIBALY Senegal’s Kalidou Koulibaly has become the latest Chelsea player to move to Saudi Arabia after the defender completed a transfer to Al-Hilal for an undisclosed fee. The centre-back, 32, joins Ruben Neves at the Saudi Pro League side following the Wolves midfielder’s £47m switch. Chelsea midfielder N’Golo Kante has also agreed to sign for Saudi champions Al-Ittihad,while team-mate Edouard Mendy is close to joining Al-Ahli. Koulibaly signed for Chelsea from Napoli last July on a four-year deal. *IHEANACHO Turkish giants Besiktas have made first offer to have Kelechi Iheanacho on loan from relegated Premier League side Leicester City. According to Fotomac, Iheanacho earns 4.5 Million Euros annually and Besiktas want to pay 2 Million Euros to partly cover this while he is on loan. Iheanacho does not want to play in the English Championship and Leicester City will accept this offer unless they get something better. *OSAYI-SAMUEL Another Turkish side, Fenerbache, are already getting set for life without Bright Osayi-Samuel with reports that they will snap up Rick Karsdrop from AS Roma as a direct replacement for the Super Eagles defender. *OSIMHEN Manchester United have returned to the chase for Victor Osimhen with the striker’s representatives due to meet with the Premier League club this week. Osimhen, 24, is a top transfer target this summer after his goals crowned Napoli champions of Italy since 1990. Top transfer expert Sacha Tavolieri has now reported that United officials with meet with Osimhen’s entourage this week. Manchester United are shopping for a new striker as they aim to close the gap on city rivals Manchester City. *MESSI & BUSQUETS  Major League Soccer side, Inter Miami have concluded plans to unveil Lionel Messi and Sergio Busquets on July 16. According to Mundo Deportivo, Messi and Busquets will be unveiled on July 16 when Inter Miami take on St Louis City in an MLS game. Messi netted 16 goals and notched 16 assists in 32 French Ligue 1 games last season for PSG while Busquets provided four assists in 30 Laliga appearances for Barcelona. Busquets will be leaving the Catalan giants after 16 years.  Paris Saint-Germain won the French League after accumulating 85 points from 38 matches and Barcelona won the Laliga title with 88 points after 38 games.