The Nigerian Navy Thursday reshuffled top  officers comprising 56 rear admirals and a commodore.  The naval headquarters in Abuja made the disclosure in a statement signed by the Director of Information, Nigerian Navy, Commodore Adetotun Ayo-Vaughan. Details of the new appointments showed that Rear  Admiral Olusanya Bankole formerly the Director of Logistics, Defence Space  Administration, is now appointed  Chief of Communications and Information Technology, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Alexander Bingel formerly Director Combat Policy and Tactics is now the Director of Logistics, Defence  Headquarters. Rear Admiral Ibrahim Dewu, formerly Director Project  Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate, Naval Headquarters is  now the Chief of Defence Civil Military Cooperation, Defence Headquarters while  Rear Admiral Kennedy Ezete formerly Director Project Monitoring, Defence  Headquarters resumes as the Chief of Administration, Naval Headquarters.  The statement disclosed that Rear  Admiral Livingstone Izu, who was the Director Manning at Naval Headquarters is  the new Chief of Logistics, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Musa Madugu  formery Deputy Director Special Operation Forces at the Defence Headquarters  has been appointed as the Admiral Superintendent Naval Ordinance Depot.  Rear Admiral Daupreye Matthew, the erstwhile Director of Innovation and Concept  Development, Naval Headquarters is now the Director of Training, Defence  Headquarters while Rear Admiral Zakariya Muhammad, the former Director of  Training, Naval Headquarters has been reappointed Chief of Training and  Operations.  Rear Admiral Emmanuel Nmoyem has been reappointed Director  Human Rights Desks at the Defence Headquarters while Rear Admiral Ibrahim Shettima formerly Flag Officer Commanding Central Naval Command moves to  Defence Headquarters as Director of Plans. The former Director of Plans, Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Monday Unurhiere  has been appointed the Chief of Defence Admimistration at the Defence  Headquarters while Rear Admiral Hamza Kaoje who was the Director Equipment  Standardisation and Harmonisation, Defence Headquarters has been appointed  Group Managing Director, Navy Holdings Limited.  Further details of the redeployment showed that Rear Admiral Sulaiman El-ladan,  who was the Chief of Naval Engineering, Naval Headquarters is now at the Defence  Research and Development Bureau at Defence Headquarters as the Director  Marine Research while Rear Admiral Idi Abbas formerly Director of Operations, Naval Headquarters is now reappointed Chief of Naval Safety and Standards.  Rear  Admiral Mohammed Abdullahi, the immediate past Director, Communications at  Naval Headquarters takes over as the Flag Officer Commanding Western Naval  Command while Rear Admiral Saheed Akinwande formerly the Commandant Naval War College Nigeria has been appointed Director Operations, Naval Headquarters. Also, Rear Admiral Istifanus Albara formerly the Head ECOWAS Maritime Security  Coordination Centre, Abidjan moves to Naval Headquarters as Navy Secretary while Rear Admiral Clement Atebi has been reappointed to Naval Headquarters as  the Director Audit.  Rear Admiral Samson Bura formerly Director Search and  Rescue, Defence Headquarters is now the Director of Logistics at the Defence  Intelligence Agency while Rear Admiral Umar Chugali formerly Director Cyber at  the Defence Space Administration takes over as the Flag Officer Commanding, Central Naval Command.  Further details of the shake-up shows that Rear Admiral Oluwole Fadeyi has been reappointed  Director Record Returns and Analysis, Naval Headquarters, likewise Rear Admiral  Olusola Oluwagbire reappointed Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval  Command. The new postings also saw Rear Admiral Eugenio Ferreira reappointed  Commander, Operation Delta Safe, Rear Admiral Mustapha Hassan formerly  Director of Policy, Naval Headquarters redeployed to Naval War College Nigeria,  Calabar as the Commandant while Rear Admiral Baratuaipri Iyalla formerly Chief  Staff Officer, Logistics Command reappointed Flag Officer Commanding Logistics  Command, Oghara.  Rear Admiral Kohath Levi formerly Chief Staff Officer Naval  Doctrine Command resumes at Naval Headquarters as the Chief of Naval  Engineering while Rear Admiral Bashir Mohammed formerly Chief of Logistics,  Naval Headquarters is now the Director Project Monitoring, Defence Headquarters. Rear Admiral Julius Nwagu formerly Director Campaign Planning, Naval  Headquarters is now appointed Commandant Defence Intelligence College.  Meanwhile, Rear Admiral Patrick Nwatu has been reappointed Flag Officer  Commanding Naval Training Command while Rear Admiral Mike Oamen who was  the Director Veterans Affairs, Naval Headquarters is now the Chief of Naval  Transformation at the Naval Headquarters.  Also, Rear Admiral James Okosun has  been reappointed Commandant Nigerian Navy Engineering College, Sapele, Rear  Admiral Ayodeji Olugbode formerly Managing Director Admiralty Maritime Services  Limited takes over as Hydrogragher of the Nigerian Navy while Rear Admiral  Abolaji Orederu formerly Director of Ships Design and Acquisition at the Naval  Headquarters has been appointed as the Admiral Superintendent Naval Dockyard  Limited, Victoria Island, Lagos. The immediate past Commander Naval Drafting, Rear Admiral Habilla Zakaria resumes at Headquarters Naval Doctrine Command as the Flag Officer Commanding  while Rear Admiral Suleiman Abdullahi, formerly Managing Director Navy Exchange  Limited is now the Director of Logistics, Defence Space Administration at the  Defence Headquarters. The erstwhile Chief of Accounts and Budget, Naval  Headquarters, Rear Admiral Kasimu Bushi has been appointed Managing Director  Navy Hotels and Suites Limited while the immediate past Flag Officer Commanding  Western Naval Command, Rear Admiral Joseph Akpan resumes at Naval  Headquarters as the Chief of Policy and Plans.  Rear Admiral Abdulmajid Ibrahim, former Director Peace Keeping Operations, Naval Headquarters is appointed  Director Defence Transformation at the Defence Headquarters while Rear Admiral  Olumuyiwa Olotu former Flag Officer Commanding Logistics Command takes over as the Commandant National Defence College, Abuja.  Rear Admiral Ibrahim Shehu, formerly the Director Marine Engineering, Naval Headquarters is appointed  Managing Director Navy Building and Construction Company Limited while Rear  Admiral Abdullahi Ahmed who was Director of Recruitments Resettlement and  Reserve, Naval Headquarters has been appointed Deputy Chief of Defence Space  Administration at the Defence Headquarters.  Others include Rear Admiral Fredrick Damtong  formerly the Director of Weapon Engineering, Naval Headquarters resumes as the  Admiral Superintendent Naval Shipyard Limited.  Meanwhile, Rear Admiral Abdulrasheed Haruna has been reappointed as the Chief Staff Officer, Headquarters  Eastern Naval Command while Rear Admiral Hamza Ibrahim, who was Admiral  Superintendent Naval Dockyard Limited has been appointed Managing Director  Admiralty Marine Services Limited. Rear Admiral Sunday Oyegade, the outgone  Admiral Superintendent Naval Shipyard Limited assumes office as the Director  Project Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation at Naval Headquarters while Rear  Admiral John Mamman is reappointed Chief Staff Officer, Headquarters Western  Naval Command likewise Rear Admiral John Okeke is reappointed Chief Staff Officer, Headquarters Central Naval Command.  Rear Admiral Olatunde Olodude,  the former Fleet Commander Western Fleet resumes Naval Headquarters as the  Director of Plans.  The redeployment also affected Rear Admiral Peter Zakaria formerly Director of  Arms, Naval Headquarters now appointed Chief Staff Officer, Headquarters  Logistics Command and Rear Admiral Sunday Atakpa who is reappointed Chief  Staff Officer, Headquarters Naval Training Command.  Rear Admiral Abdul-hamid  Baba-Inna, formerly the Director of Legal Services, Naval Headquarters is now  Director of Administration, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Patrick Effah,  formerly Director of Maritime Domain Awareness, Naval Headquarters is now the  Director of Naval Intelligence.  Rear Admiral Abubakar Mustapha, who was the Deputy Director Defence Affairs at the Office of the National Security Adviser assumes office as the Director of Training, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral  Chidozie Okehie, the immediate past Director of Personnel Release at the Naval  Headquarters takes over as the Deputy Commandant, Armed Forces Command  and Staff College, Jaji.  Rear Admiral Olusegun Soyemi, formerly the Director  Monitoring and Evaluation Analysis , Naval Headquarters is appointed Director of Policy, Naval Headquarters while Rear Admiral Abraham Zipelle, formerly  Commandant Defence Intelligence College now moves to Naval Headquarters as  the Director of Manning. Furthermore, Commodore Omotola Olukoya, who was  the Commander Central Pay Office resumes as the new Chief of Accounts and  Budget, Naval Headquarters.