Emmanuel Ugwu-Nwogo in Umuahia The 2023 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, High Chief Ikechi Emenike, has called on Muslims to sustain the spirit of sacrifices for the good of the country as they celebrate this year’s Eid-el Kabir. Emenike, who made the call in his Sallah message to Muslims, implored them to continue to pray for peace and unity of Nigeria. He tasked them to look deeper into the essence of the Eid-el Kabir and apply its significance to their obligations to the Nigerian state and to fellow citizens irrespective of tribe and religion. According to him, “You are commemorating an event rooted in willingness to sacrifice as an act of obedience; this, therefore, is a call for every Nigerian to put the country first in every course of action, policy or legislation.” The Abia APC leader noted that Nigerians have been making sacrifices for the growth of their fatherland any time they were called upon to do so. Nonetheless, he added that they should not get weary as the job of nation building is not done yet. “The realisation that our dear country has not attained the height we all crave for should spur us not to relent in making the necessary sacrifices to build a nation of our dream,” he said. Emenike, a renowned development economist, was quick to point out that the collective sacrifices needed for national growth does not exempt any class of people. He said: “In as much as the masses are expected to make sacrifices whenever they are required to do so, those in leadership positions should also be willing to take the lead when the need arises.” While wishing Muslims in Abia State and across Nigeria a happy celebration, Emenike, who was the Abia State Coordinator of Tinubu/Shettima Presidential Campaign Council, urged them to always be willing to sacrifice their own interest to promote peace, justice and harmony for the greater good of all. alled for unalloyed support for the new administration of President Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to enable him achieve his goal of restoring Nigeria to a land of prosperity.