Sylvester Idowu in Warri  The Agbami parties, comprising Star Deepwater Petroleum Ltd (A Chevron Company), NNPC Upstream Investment Management Services Ltd (NUIMS), Famfa Oil Ltd; Equinor Nigeria Energy Ltd, and Prime 127 Nigeria Ltd, have donated a model classroom block to Special Education Centre, Agbor, Delta State. The director of Star Deepwater Petroleum Ltd, Michelle Pflueger, while inaugurating the facility, commended the Delta government and the people of Agbor for their support and partnership, underscoring the social investment initiatives of the partners across Nigeria. “Beyond our core business, the improvement of the quality of life of the people is an important value to the Agbami parties. From Lagos to Ondo, Delta, Bayelsa, and Kaduna, Maiduguri to Port Harcourt, the Agbami parties have continued to add value through our social investment initiatives,” she said. Pflueger disclosed that several other projects in education, health and economic development were either ongoing or completed across the country, stressing that these include science laboratories, model classroom blocks and chest clinics, among others. “Today, the parties are adding even more with this model classroom Block that we are donating to the special needs school. Please join me in applauding the Agbami parties”, she said. In addition to some of the infrastructural projects being executed, Pflueger said the Agbami Parties have also instituted specialised educational scholarship programmes in support of manpower development in Nigeria through targeted support for medical, nursing, laboratory sciences and engineering students, stressing that many students in Delta State have benefitted from the scholarship scheme. Principal of the school, Francisca Ezehi, while expressing her appreciation to the donors, disclosed that the facility has six well-furnished classrooms, a science laboratory, a library, a sickbay, toilets, and a well-spaced walkway, as well as a big, sound-proof generating set, a borehole, a water system and ceiling fans, among others. Chief Upstream Investment Officer, NUIMS, Bala Wunti, and the representative of the state government, Augustine Oghoro, who’s the permanent secretary, Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education, urged the school management to make judicious use of the facility while Oghoro appealed to other stakeholders in the private sector to support the development of their host communities.