*Today, Federation Cup champions Bendel Insurance to play Rivers United in a winner-takes-all clash for ticket to playoffs Kunle Adewale Reigning Nigeria Football League (NPL) champions, Enyimba International of Aba, and Nigeria National League (NNL) side, Yobe Desert Stars of Damaturu, have guaranteed for themselves at least a sum of nine million naira  each after booking their tickets for the Naija Super 8 finals in Lagos, with victories in their zonal play-off matches at the Eket Township Stadium yesterday. Enyimba edged Heartland 1-0 in a cagey ‘Oriental Derby’, while  Yobe Stars produced the first upset in the Naija Super 8 play-offs with a 2-1 victory over NPFL side, Gombe United.  In the keenly contested South-East derby, Heartland recorded the first shot on target in the 14th minute, but it was Enyimba who opened the scoring in the 25th minute through Murphy Ndukwe.   The People’s Elephant had a chance to double their lead in the 40th minute, but fluffed their lines from close range. Heartland pushed for the equaliser and drew another fine save from Enyimba goalkeeper, Olorunleke Ojo in the 43rd minute.  Both teams cancelled each other out for most of the second half, as they struggled to create clear cut chances. Heartland managed another shot on target in the 69th minute which was repelled by Olorunkeke.  Enyimba had a big opportunity to double their lead in the 87th minute, but Adiele Eriugo fired his shot wide.  Despite the victory, Enyimba coach, Finidi George, was not totally happy with his team’s performance.  “We knew it was going to be difficult. Happy we won but not happy the way we played, especially in the second half. Overall, we had chances to score a second goal, but I am not happy about the play. We were lucky they didn’t get an equaliser,” he said.  On how his team will approach the Naija Super 8 finals, George said “It’s going to be a different ball game. We know how to play those types of tournaments.”  On his part, Heartland Coach, Christian Obi said his was satisfied with the performance of his boys, but faulted some of the centre referee’s calls. “My boys played to instruction and I am proud of their performance. We should have gotten more from the match but for some wrong calls from the referee. We had a clear penalty but the referee thought otherwise,” Obi said. The former Julius Berger of Lagos safe hand however took consolation from the fact that the Naija Super 8 Play-offs was a good ground to prepare the Naze Millionaires for the NNL plays offs slated for the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba. Today, Federation Cup champions Bendel Insurance to play Rivers United in a winner-takes-all clash for ticket to playoffs at same venue in Eket.