Mary Nnah As part of its long-standing commitment to fulfilling its global World Without Waste agenda, the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) Ltd. on Tuesday, June 20, in partnership with the University of Lagos, commissioned a Green Eco Hub project at the university campus in Yaba, Lagos. The initiative entails the installation and operation of 4 drop-off centres for the collection of post-consumer PET bottles for recycling; a sustainability learning centre to educate and create awareness on recycling, and the funding of baling equipment for the optimisation of PET transport logistics. For many years, NBC alongside its partner, Coca-Cola Nigeria, has been at the forefront of opening the plastic recycling ecosystem that has now evolved into an industry creating jobs for thousands of Nigerians with immense social impact. The company has continued to drive several partnerships and collaborations with waste recycling organizations, industry leaders, governments, NGOs, development agencies, and consumers to improve the waste management culture. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Director at NBC, Oluwasoromidayo George, emphasized that this project restates the company’s commitment towards environmental sustainability, especially in the areas of post-consumer PET recovery for recycling. She said “Plastic waste becomes a menace to the environment when not separated and channelled for recycling. Our ‘World Without Waste’ agenda aims to help address it, as it is built under key strategic pillars of design, collection and partnership, which we have been implementing across our operations. We have the strong belief that every package has value and life beyond its initial use and as such should be collected and recycled into either a new bottle or another material for beneficial use, thereby taking off the lid on one use-only life span into a completely circular economy. Partnering on projects like this is one of several ways through which we as a producer, are leading the way in driving awareness on the importance of waste separation for recycling and sustaining the creation of economic prosperity through the plastic recycling value chain.” Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, Director, Public Affairs, Communications, and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria, during her remarks, reiterated the commitment of the Coca-Cola System to collect one bottle or can for everyone it produces by 2030 under its World Without Waste vision. She said, “Through our partnership with the University of Lagos on the launch of its Green Hub, we hope to further engender proper waste management practices that deepen our sustainability thrust amongst the youth demographic. We are on a journey to a World Without Waste and as we partner with like-minded organizations to advance this agenda, we are working to achieve 100% collection of our packaging by 2030 with 50% recycled content in our packaging by 2030”. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Management Services, University of Lagos, Professor Lucien Obinna Chukwu representing the 13th Vice Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Professor Folasade Ogunsola, echoed similar sentiments, highlighting that NBC’s efforts to rid the environment of plastic waste is in alignment with the university’s ongoing environmental sustainability efforts. She said, “Today, we are glad that the University of Lagos is at the forefront in the realm of sustainability among all other universities nationwide. I would like to begin by expressing our sincere gratitude to our esteemed partners, the Nigerian Bottling Company, and our other collaborators, who have recognized the significance of bringing this innovation to our university. This program goes beyond the goal of protecting and sustaining the environment; it specifically highlights the urgent need to manage our waste, especially plastics. In Nigeria, we face challenges with PET bottles which ultimately end up in our waterways and numerous dump sites across the country.” “The programme aims to tackle the necessity of behaviour change and introduce innovative plastic recycling practices. Ultimately, this initiative will not only enhance our environmental sustainability by reducing our carbon footprint but also contribute to revenue generation, fostering a circular economy”, Professor Lucien added. This initiative is projected to reduce the institution’s carbon footprint by 15% whilst impacting over 1,000 stakeholders on carbon literacy. The drop-off centres are strategically located across the UNILAG campus including the Amina Hall, Mariere Hall, High-rise, and DLI bus stop. A product-based incentive tagged “bottles 4 drinks” will be adopted to encourage usage of the drop-off centres, where stakeholders can exchange large numbers of post-consumer plastic bottles for drinks. Green badges and certificates will also be used to motivate participants. In addition to this, the sustainability learning centre will be a knowledge and resource transfer avenue for educational awareness on recycling and environmental sustainability business and skills. The centre will also serve to stimulate stakeholders’ interest and commitment to the collection of recyclable waste from the generation points. Interested students, staff and the public will be engaged and exposed to recycling and circular economy business. Place. Because she has taken it from zero to being somewhere that is international. So we are looking at people like her to give people that inspiration.”   He said that the theme, “Fashion for the Future”, emphasised the fact that,  fashion is always changing, noting, “A lot of you are wearing stuff now and you think you are the first people you ever dress like that. But do you know fashion has always been recycled? There is nothing that you are wearing now that somebody did not wear some years back. So, we are looking at what fashion will be like in the future.” “CNN said about two or three years ago that fashion would be the biggest income earner in Nigeria. It will earn more money than oil, agriculture, and any other form of entertainment combined. That is how big fashion is going to be.” He disclosed that the team is putting a lot of effort into helping people strategies for the future. “We have our design for a fashion competition to bring people that are recycling and there is a cash price for them.”