…Calls for review of remuneration for doctors, health workers Rebecca Ejifoma  To better serve humanity and save more lives, Ahmadiyya Muslim Hospital, Ojokoro in Lagos, has implored the federal government to create an enabling environment for hospitals to thrive. The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of the hospital, Dr Samiullah Tahir, made this appeal while highlighting the hospital’s impacts at a media conference and tour of its Ojokoro branch.  In the last five years, Tahir said Ahmadiyya, in partnership with the Lagos State government, has offered residents of the Ojokoro community and Lagosians comprehensive medical treatment. The treatments range from Tuberculosis (TB) to Human Immuno-deficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS), among others, while providing vital maternal and child care services.  While adding that Ahmadiyya offers free surgeries, too, the CMD said they provide a lot of free medical grants for all the federations thanks to its about 100 staff and six full-time doctors. He added: “Although most services are free, those who can pay do so. Those who can’t pay do not. Those who walk in pay; charge them; that’s how we get money.” Besides the charity services, the Ahmadiyya headquarters provides X-ray machines. “Obstetricians need them. Although we got them free of charge, they cost around N60 million.  “Similarly, we acquired a scanning device for about N20 million,” he added. Tahir, however, lamented some challenges they faced. “Medical services are quite expensive. Unfortunately, the government is not supporting us as it should.” While insisting that the government can do many things for society, the CMD clarified, “We don’t have many challenges because we have a big source of income, and nobody will go without being served”. He also highlighted the high cost of drugs as a significant hurdle in running hospitals in Nigeria. “There is a need for the government to review remunerations for medical doctors and other health workers upwardly,” he recommended.  Meanwhile, Ahmadiyya Hospital started in India in 1889 and spread its tentacles worldwide to render unrestrained healthcare services to all. In Nigeria, Ahmadiyya is sited in Apapa, Ojokoro, and Ijebu Ode in Ogun state, and also in Kano, Imo and Plateau.  According to Tahir, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and World Health Organisation (WHO) recognised Ahmadiyya Hospital for excellence. “What we are doing at Ahmadiyya is part of our missionary work through Islam, serving humanity,” he expressed. Following its mandate for quality care for all religions, races and tribes, Ahmadiyya offers free medical outreach in their host communities. Fielding questions from the journalists, one of the doctors at Ahmadiyya, Dr Akinwale Owotoro, said the hospital offers excellent physiotherapy services to people with stroke. “Our physiotherapy services also cover people with arthritis, sports/spinal cord injuries, back pain and other mobility challenges. Our goal is to put a smile on our client’s faces,” says Owotoro.