Dr. Joseph Nwobike, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, is the Lead Partner of a multi-disciplinary law firm, Osborne Law Practice, with offices in Lagos, Port-Harcourt and  Abuja. Recently, he made history as the first legal practitioner to single handedly build and donate a befitting Bar Centre free to any Branch of the Nigerian Bar Association, NBA, in Rivers State, writes Wale Igbintade It is often said that the true meaning of wealth is giving back to the society at large. This is true, and applicable to Dr. Joseph Nwobike SAN, who through philanthropic gestures has empowered many people over the years. Interestingly, Nwobike’s charitable gesture had gone beyond community development, and has made history as the first legal practitioner to single-handedly built and donated a befitting Bar Centre free to any NBA branch in Rivers State. The Bar Centre, named ‘Dr. Joseph Nwobike SAN Law Centre’ was erected on an expansive land at Alimini Isiokpo town, Rivers State, and was officially commissioned on Friday June 23, 2023, by the Chief Judge of Rivers State, Justice Simeon Amadi. Inaugurating the Bar Centre, the Chief Judge of Rivers State, Justice Simeon Amadi commended Dr. Joseph Nwobike for the kind gesture, stressing that he has written his name in gold, and made the jobs of lawyers in Isiokpo easy, as they now have a befitting office to carry out their legal-related activities. The Chief Judge admonished lawyers to constantly support the Nigerian Bar Association in its quest to promote the rule of law and its activities. The jurist, who noted that the donor is the first lawyer in the state to build and donate a secretariat for the Nigerian Bar Association, admonished lawyers to always find ways of helping the Bar and young lawyers to grow professionally. He stated that Dr. Nwobike has made giant strides in the legal profession, adding that building a modern Bar Centre for the Isiokpo branch is laudable and worthy of emulation by others. In his remarks, the Chairman of the NBA Isiokpo Branch, Dr. Cashmia Ofurum, copiously thanked Dr. Nwobike for donating the magnificent edifice to the Branch. In his remarks, the donor, Dr. Nwobike said that the event was the high point of the promise to build and donate the secretariat which he made in September, 2022 to the Branch’s Executives, following their plea for office accommodation. He thanked God for his provision which made it possible for the project to be delivered within time. He urged the NBA Isiokpo Branch to put the building and its facilities to their best use. Dr. Nwobike said the donation was an expression of his commitment to sustaining the branch, and giving back to the profession from which he has benefited immensely. ‘’This project, I must confess, is one of my little ways of giving back to the profession from which I have derived so much. In all, I want to thank God for providing the means, grace and divine understanding which clearly enabled the completion of this project within this time, he stated. According to Nwobike, it all started on August 22, 2022, when some Isiokpo-born lawyers, and other members of the Nigerian Bar Association, Isiokpo branch visited his chambers in Lagos on the activities and challenges facing the NBA Isiokpo Branch, as well as problem of office accommodation confronting the Branch since its creation in 2002. He said he accepted to support the Branch and immediately directed one Stephen Alu, to source for land in Isiokpo Town for that purpose. “I purchased the land, and on the September 22, 2022, handed over the ownership of the two plots of land to the Branch at a ceremony attended by the executives and members of the Branch, At that event, the Branch Chairman, Dr. Cashmia Ofurum, in his address, pleaded for my assistance to their quest to construct a befitting secretariat for the Branch. Following this plea, I announced my decision to build and deliver a befitting secretariat on that land to the Branch within the shortest possible time. What we are gathered here today, being the 23rd of June 2023, is the highpoint of that unconditional commitment made by my humble self to the NBA Isiokpo Branch on that day’’, he stated. He thanked members and executives of the Branch for naming the secretariat after him and that he was indeed humbled by this gesture. He also commended the Chief Judge of the State, the judges of the various High Courts, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Rivers State, the members of the Inner and Outer Bar, Traditional Rulers and other dignitaries presented at the occasion. “I thank the Honourable Chief Judge of the State, the judges of the various High Courts here present, the Honourable Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Rivers State, the members of the Inner and Outer Bar, Traditional Rulers and other dignitaries who found this event worthy of their physical attendance’’, he stated. Earlier in his welcome addresses, Chairman, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Isiokpo Branch, Rivers State, Dr. Cashmia Ofurum, expressed appreciation to the donor for putting smiles on the faces members of Isiokpo branch. According to him, it was at the NBA annual general conference that two members of the branch decided to pay a courtesy visit to Dr. Nwobike, adding that it was the visit that paved the way for the inauguration of the Bar Centre. He said: “The NBA Isiokpo Branch is indeed proud to play host to the commissioning exercises of her property and Dr. Joseph Nwobike (SAN), NBA Isiokpo Law Centre. Upon our being sworn in as the Chairman of the Family Bar, we bought the property at Igwuruta town and renovated same. Wilcox Abereton, SAN sponsored the painting of the property. We appreciate you, Elder. Our property at Igwuruta town is located in a serene and cozy environment and consists of:  One bedroom flat apartment; three self-contain apartments and four lock-up shops. “We are confident that this property would yield income of at least N1military annually. This is a shift from the previous situation where the Branch will depend mostly on gifts from the Government and members of the public to survive. ‘’The NBA Isiokpo Branch is further blessed with a wonderful breakthrough by God Almighty through Dr. Joseph Nwobike, SAN. While at the NBA annual general conference last year, Stephen Alu, Simple Oroha (both members of Isiokpo Branch) and Chigoze Amadi, the current Director Public Prosecution, Rivers State (Port Harcourt Branch) decided to pay a courtesy visit to Dr. Joseph Nwobike, SAN. I must categorically state here for the records that it was that visit that paved the way for the commissioning of the Bar Centre that we are witnessing today. “As providence would have it at that courtesy visit, Dr. Joseph Nwobike SAN decided to buy two plots of land and donate same to the NBA Isiokpo Branch. As if that was not enough, the Learned Silk, true to his word began raising this edifice for the Branch. The Branch equally bought two additional plots of land to add to the one donated to us and sent a token to facilitate in developing the area we purchased, and before we knew it, the learned silk has completed this building within a shortest possible time. Learned Silk, it is not enough to name the Bar Centre after you, the Branch shall eternally remain grateful to you’’, he added. The historic occasion attracted many high court judges, magistrates, senior lawyers and other dignitaries from far and near, including His Royal Majesty King Blessing A N Wagor JP, Wagidi XL, who led other traditional rulers to the occasion. Some of the dignitaries at the event include judges of the State’s Judiciary, the Solicitor-General of the State, Mr. Egerton Madume, Director of Public Prosecution of Rivers State, the Paramount Ruler of the Isiokpo Ancient Kingdom, HRM Blessing Wagor The Wagidi XL, Senior Advocates of Nigeria,  Chris Ezem, the immediate past Secretary to the Abia State Government, Hon. Eloka Tasie-Amadi, former Rivers State Commissioner for Works, lawyers, the clergy, among others.