Chiemelie Ezeobi Hours after the death of Lai Oso, a renowned professor of Mass Communication at the School of Communication, Lagos State University (LASU), filtered in, tributes have been pouring in. Oso, who died in a motor accident on Saturday evening on his way back to Lagos from Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, was loved by all. Expectedly, his death elicited a flurry of tributes from many, especially his students and colleagues who described him as a thoroughbred professional who discharged his duties diligently In a statement  yesterday, Dean of the Faculty of Communication at LASU, Olayinka Alawode,  had confirmed the death of the professor. The statement read in part, “I am constrained to inform us of the involvement of Professor Muraino Olayiwola OSO, (we all fondly called Baba Lai Oso) in a fatal auto accident which claimed his life yesterday 24th June 2023. “It’s a rude shock to all of us even as we commiserate with mummy Oso, the children, and his entire family, the communication family worldwide, LASU community, and all others. “Baba, your sudden exit is painful, but we rest in the comfort that you have gone to be with the Lord.” Born on October 15, 1956, Oso was the dean of the faculty of communication and media studies between 2011 and 2015. He obtained a bachelor of science in mass communication from the University of Lagos (UNILAG). He got a master’s degree in international relations at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. Before his death, he was the president of the Association of Communication Scholars & Professionals of Nigeria. In their condolence message, Association of Communication Scholars & Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN) said his constitutes a monumental loss to the Nigerian and global mass communication and journalism community. The statement read: “Professor Oso became the President of ACSPN in 2014, after the incorporation of the Association late in 2013, and served meritoriously till the year 2020 when he passed the baton of leadership to the current President, Prof. Umaru Pate,  Vice Chancellor of Federal University, Kashere, Gombe State. According to Professor Pate,  “Professor Oso held the firm conviction that the meeting of the gown and town would benefit the mass communication and media fields for the maximum impact of both professions on democracy and development. He pursued this conviction relentlessly and his death is a collective loss.” Also speaking,  the General Secretary of ACSPN and Vice Chancellor of Caleb University, Lagos, Prof. Nosa Owens-Ibie said: “Under his tenure the Association began the process by producing in collaboration with UNESCO and other stakeholders, the first draft of what has now been launched as the Unbundled Mass Communication curriculum, following a curriculum development workshop for communication and journalism courses in November 2015. “He was a scholar who helped to make scholars out of others through knowledge building, scholarly articles and book publications, and it was also under him that ACSPN commenced many niche programmes, including its mentorship series, and organised town-meet-gown training and knowledge sharing events across the country.”