James Sowole in Abeokuta  Concerned by the plight of pupils and teachers in some schools in Ogun State, the Rotary Club of Maryland, Ikeja, Lagos State, has donated eight unit toilet facility and educational materials to the Ogun State Government-owned St. Peters Claver’s Nursery and Primary School 1, Itesi, Abeokuta, the state capital. In order to ensure the functioning of the facility, the Rotary Club also revamped the borehole facility of the school that had been abandoned for years. The projects were handed over to the school by the District 9110 Governor, Omotunde Lawson, alongside the Maryland President, Rissy Taiwo, in the presence of the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, and his chiefs. Speaking at the event, Taiwo said the projects, which were done under Rotary’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) and Basic Education and Literacy (BELI) programme, were basically designed to address essential human needs, which include sanitary environment, health and water supply. Taiwo said: “I am glad that we have gathered here in numbers to witness the official handing-over of the toilet facility under the Rotary International Global Grant for the school. The programme is basically designed to address essential human needs, which include a sanitary environment, health and water supply.  “Access to clean water is not only a basic need of mankind, but a necessity to sustain all forms of life in the world. “It is our firm belief that the toilet will afford the pupils of this school good hygiene. These pupils are young children and they deserve the best especially now that they are just starting their lives. They should not be denied the best toilet facility anyone can provide. “I commend the staff of St Peter Claver’s school for being patient all along despite having no functional toilet system. I am confident that the new toilet facility funded by Global Grant and some individual contributions will ensure not only easy access to the toilet but improved sanitation.” Taiwo also called on all well-meaning Nigerians to support the government to improve the educational standard of the country. While appreciating the Rotary Club for the projects, the Alake of Egbaland urged other non-governmental organisations to emulate the club by supporting the government. The monarch, who is an ex-student of the school, however, appealed to the club to extend kind gestures to other schools within the Egbaland. He said: “This is my primary school. I am happy we are inaugurating these projects here. Others should emulate this good gesture, and I will always support you.” The Headmistress of the school, Mrs. Olaniyan Kadijat, also thanked the organisation, assuring it that the authorities would ensure proper maintenance of the projects.