Blessing Ibunge in Port Harcourt General Electric Gas Power Services (now known as GE Vernova’s Gas Power business in Sub-Sahara Africa), in partnership with Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN), recently hosted ‘Girls in STEM’, an event organised to inspire secondary school girls and bridge the gender gap in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). The programme, also organised virtually for students in other nine states across the country simultaneously, was targeted at preparing the next generation of women engineers and innovators. The programme was organised in collaboration with GE Vernova’s Gas Power customers; NNPC Exploration and Production Limited (NEPL), First Independent Power Limited (FIPL) and TransAfam Power Limited (Transafam).The company believes that the commercial imperative, coupled with the ongoing challenges of recruiting and retaining top female talent in STEM jobs, means organizations must make continued, real investment in closing the gender gap. Hundreds of participants from three schools across Rivers State also visited the power plants to experience potential careers in STEM, while other students from Nasarawa, Lagos, Oyo, Ogun, and others earlier joined online to be inspired by seasoned professionals.According to the Services Executive, Mr. Kenneth Oyakhire, the event was held in commemoration of the International Day for Women in Engineering, and featured educative panel discussions on leadership, exploring different STEM careers and mentorship. Oyakhire noted that the aim of the Girls in STEM programme was to encourage girls to choose careers in STEM; expose them to a network of female role models; and organise experiential and discovery sessions to provide an immersive experience into potential careers they can explore in STEM. He added: “It is important to delve beyond surface-level issues and identify the underlying factors that discourage girls from pursuing careers in STEM. “We are dedicated to showcasing a wide range of opportunities available through our Girls in STEM initiatives, therefore paving the way for a future of high-quality careers in engineering, manufacturing, IT, and product management roles.” The Executive Director of JAN, Foluso Gbadamosi, represented by the Programme Manager, Olaolu Akogun, emphasised the significance of celebrating women in engineering, stating that “there is no better time than now to expose young girls to the possibilities of a career in STEM.” She highlighted the importance of equipping them with the right mindset and showcasing the opportunities available to pursue their dreams. Gbadamosi stressed the benefits of stimulating their interest and launching their STEM careers, not only for their economic future but also for building thriving communities. She also reiterated JAN’s commitment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, particularly in the areas of quality education, gender equality, reduced inequalities, and partnership for the goals. Gbadamosi thanked GE Vernova for its commitment towards the STEM programme. One of the beneficiaries of the CSR activity, Emmanuel Princess of Methodist Girls High School, thanked GE and JAN for giving girls the necessary exposure to guide them through career choice. The panel session themed ‘She Can – breaking stereotypes’, was moderated by Segun Dada, co-founder, Caspa Technology, and featured Dr. Ureh Oparaodu, ENT Surgeon, Rivers State University Teaching Hospital; Iroghama Ogbeifun, MD/CEO, Starz Investments Company Limited; Theodora Isola, Agile Project Manager, PM4SUCCESS Int’l Limited; and Thelma Osunhor, Operations Director, GE Vernova’s Gas Power business SSA.