Kunle Adewale  Super Eagles assistant coach, Finidi George has debunked insinuation in some quarters that the four players invited from the Nigeria Premier League to the Super Eagles for the African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Serria Leone were just in camp to satisfy the yearnings and clamoring of Nigerian football fans for the inclusion of home-based players in the senior national team, but would never have a chance to play. In a chat with THISDAY Newspapers, the UEFA Champions League winner with Ajax said all the players-both local or foreign-based, invited to prosecute the Sunday’s encounter have equal chances of playing. “To start with, the four players were invited based on merit and they stand an equal chance of playing for the Super Eagles with the foreign based professionals. The onus now on them to satisfy the handlers during training that they’re set for the match against Serria Leone. “None of the players would be on parade against the Leone Stars in Monrovia on Sunday based on their pedigree but rather the selection would be made based on their output in training ahead of the encounter. Of course, not everybody will play, either you’re foreign or home-based,” Finidi said. The former Nigeria international however stated that even if none of the home-based players did not play against Serria Leone being invited to the Super Eagles is an honour. “It is an honour to be invited to the national team, in some other climes some players ‘celebrate’ it. To be invited for an AFCON qualifier itself is a big lift in one’s career and a player should feel honoured to be counted worthy of the call-up,” the former Super Eagles winger noted. Meanwhile, George, who also double as Enyimba Head Coach has attributed the team’s latest Nigeria Premier League (NPL) triumph to ‘hardwork and unity’. The 1994 AFCON winner claimed a record-extending nineth NPL title on Sunday in Lagos after a 1-1 draw against holders Rivers United to move top of the Super Six standings with nine points and a better goal difference of +4 ahead of Remo Stars and Rivers United. It is the first league title for the former Nigeria International, who is only in his second season at the helm of Enyimba. Asked what was the key to the club’s success in the league in the just-concluded campaign, the former Ajax winger said: “It is that unity and work ethic.  “I tell the players that ‘when you work hard you’ll get the reward one way or the other’. “We have a lot of young players who are willing to listen and are ready to work. So, that combination with my character also, really helped. “I am not the high-handed type that has to scold everybody. I speak to them, and they understand. I explain things to them that ‘I’ve done it before; played to the highest level’. They want to learn from me. That’s the attitude (in the team), and it becomes easier for me. The 52-year-old gaffer stated that he has a cordial relationship with his players, which was evident during celebration when the team scores. “You can see that on the field of play. A player scores a goal, he is coming to me because he knows how hard we’ve worked, the encouragement I’ve given to them. “So, we are like a family, and that is key (to our success).” Following the latest league success, the Nigerian giants, alongside Remo Stars, will represent Nigeria in the 2023/2024 CAF Champions League – a competition they won back-to-back in 2003 and 2004.