•President, north central governor, Saraki, Lai Mohammed mourn  •State pledges 1000 life jackets as AbdulRazaq leads delegation to Patigi  •Call for urgent investigation  •HYPPADEC begins search operations Deji Elumoye in Abuja, Hammed Shittu in Ilorin and Igbawase Ukumba in Lafia President Bola Tinubu has ordered a thorough investigation of the recent boat mishap in Kwara State which reportedly claimed over 100 lives. He also expressed sadness over the accident that led to the death of some of the wedding guests at Egbu village in Patigi Local Government Area of the State. The President, in a statement issued yesterday, by State House Director of Information, Mr. Abiodun Oladunjoye, while urging the Kwara State Government and relevant federal government agencies to look into the circumstances surrounding the boat accident, promised that his administration would look into the challenges of inland water transportation in the country to ensure that the matter of safety and operational standards were strictly adhered to. “The Kwara State Government and relevant federal agencies should work together to unravel the immediate and remote causes of this unfortunate accident. Immediate relief and necessary assistance should also be provided to the survivors and families of victims,” the president added. Tinubu further stated: “I am deeply saddened by the news of the tragic boat accident that claimed the lives of our people in Kwara State. That the victims were guests at a wedding ceremony made the unfortunate accident more painful.  “My heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the families and friends of victims of the tragic mishap. I also sympathise with the government and people of Kwara State over the accident” “May all loved ones find comfort,” the president prayed. Kwara State Governor, Alhaji AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, yesterday, pledged to deliver 1000 life jackets to support safe travels on water in Patigi local government area of the state. Speaking  with journalists after his sympathy visit to the people of  Kpada and Duro, the headquarters of Ebu and Dzakan settlements whose residents died in the fatal boat mishap incident, the governor Said, “measures will be taken as we are having discussions with Nigeria Inland Waterway Authority (NIWA) on enforcement of safety codes. “We will also be sending a team to Lagos State on how their waterways law works. “Our immediate step is to deliver at least 1000 life jackets to support safe travels on water in the area. “In addition to whatever safety measures that are in place, the government will design and roll out some statewide standard operating procedures (SOPs) for water travels to cover issues of boat serviceability, speed limits, loading limits and wearing of life jackets by all passengers. This will be the new irreducible minimum. “The government will also send to the parliament a proposed legislation that imposes punishments and fines for violations of the safety protocol”. AbdulRazaq added. For their part, the North Central Governors’ Forum yesterday expressed grief over the death of over 100 wedding guests following the accident. The Chairman of the North Central Governors’ Forum, Abdullahi Sule, expressed grief in release issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Ibrahim Addra. Sule, who is the governor of Nasarawa State, therefore, said the North Central Governors were deeply shaken by the tragedy, ironically at a time of a wedding celebration. The regional governors’ chairman, on behalf of other governors of the North Central States and the people of the region, condoled the government and people of Kwara State and the family of the deceased. Sule said: “Our thoughts and prayers are with our colleague, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and the people of Kwara State at this period. “We pray that God will grant the departed eternal rest and their families the fortitude to bear the loss.” However, a former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, yesterday, called on Kwara State government to commence immediate investigation into the fatal boat mishap. Also yesterday, the management of the Hydroelectric Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPPADEC) dispatched a team of experts from its Kwara State office to the scene to assist in search operations. Saraki in a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday, signed by his Press Officer, Local Affairs, Mr. Abdulganiyu Abdulqadir, described the fatal boat mishap as unfortunate and a great loss to the affected families, communities, and the State at large.  Saraki, a former governor of the state however sympathised with the  Etsu Patigi, Alhaji Ibrahim Umar Bologi II, the family of the victims, and the good people of Patigi and the State over the accident. He said,  “I deeply empathise and sympathise with the royal father, the good people of Patigi, and the families of victims of the boat mishap.” He called on the government to conduct a proper investigation into the immediate and remote causes of the mishap with a view to putting in place measures to prevent a recurrence. He urged the families of the victims to take solace in the fact that death was an inevitable end for all mortals. Saraki prayed to God Almighty to grant the deceased eternal rest and give the families and the entire Patigi community the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Meanwhile, the Managing Director, HYPPADEC), Alhaji Abubakar Sadiq Yelwa, said the Commission had already dispatched a team of experts from its Kwara State office to the scene to assist in search operations. He said the agency was awaiting a comprehensive report on the mishap to guide it on the next line of action to be taken to contain future occurrence of the ugly incidence. In a statement issued in Ilorin yesterday, he described  as tragic, the boat mishap. He added, “Accordingly, the Commission has already dispatched a team of experts from Kwara state office to the scene to assist in search operations while it awaits a comprehensive report on the mishap to be guided on the next line of action to be taken to contain future occurrence of the ugly incidence.” The immediate past Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, also expressed sympathy with the victims of the boat accident. Mohammed, described the fatal boat mishap as unfortunate. The former minister in a statement issued and signed personally, yesterday, sympathised with the state government and victims of the accident. He also condoled with the families of those who lost their lives in the accident. He added: “This is tragic and very unfortunate. I am very saddened by the loss of many lives. May God rest their souls. “I pray to almighty Allah to rest the souls of the victims and I hope that rescue efforts would find some survivors.”