Funmi Ogundare  Simon Page College of Marketing has graduated 120 professionals, certified in Digital Marketing, Professional Marketing and Project Management for diploma and postgraduate diplomas for the 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 academic sessions. Speaking at the graduation ceremony in Lagos weekend, the guest speaker and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Opay, Mr. Olu Akanmi, congratulated the graduands saying that for them to stay relevant, especially in the boardroom, they must learn the language of finance and the use technology. He explained that with the rapid change in how businesses are done, marketers must key into the digital transformation.  “Business is changing rapidly, and every business today is being impacted by technology. When we talk of digital transformation, it is not limited to any industry. Every industry must be digitally transformed,” he said. “Therefore, anyone that wants to practice marketing must connect to the digital transformation trend of the industry.” He noted that business owners expect a return on investment, adding that practising modern marketing today involves learning technology, adding that “marketing is business, there must be clear metrics, and marketers must ensure they speak the language of revenue and performance.” The Chief Executive Officer of Simon Page College, Dr. Princewill Osaro Omorogiuwa, stated that in the last 15 years, the school has been supporting students in various countries and trained over 5,000 marketing professionals across different industries. He noted that with the quality of training the graduands have gotten. They would be relevant not just in their jobs or career but also in their organisations would be impacted. “The qualifications they have will enable them to recognise a shift with technology and adapt to it and get the best out of it. So the true marketing people are the ones who will continue to navigate that complexity so they can get value for their organisations and customers. If you are not properly trained, you will scare, but if you are well trained, you have already anticipated the changes,” he said. Over time, the CEO said the school was able to develop a curriculum that takes up the aspect of sustainable marketing, data and analytics, adding, “So you can expect that as the environment continues to change, we continue to adapt. That is why our students who take these courses and qualify are able to improve significantly, not just in their jobs and careers, but in their organisations.” Awards were presented to the overall best students in the diploma and postgraduate diploma professional marketing for 2020,2021, and 2022. Other students also received awards in Management, Marketing Strategy, Innovation in Marketing, Digital Customer Experience, Marketing and Digital Strategy, among others.