Adedayo Akinwale in Abuja  The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdulahi Adamu, has revealed that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party has no hand in the emergence of National Assembly principal officers. THISDAY reports that the APC NWC at the end of its meeting held  on May 8, 2023 ratified the zoning formula proposed by President Bola Tinubu. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Felix Morka, announced the ratification while briefing journalists after the meeting. However, Adamu during the meeting between the NWC and and the members of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) held on Tuesday at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja said: “You will get an update of the national election in the National Assembly sharing of power, particularly the leadership of the chambers. The election of the principal officers of the Senate by the Senate President and Deputy Senate President. The election of the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives have been determined and announced and their responsibilities.  “The remaining offices will be determined by the two chambers, it’s yet to be done. I had a courtesy call on Saturday from the President of the Senate and his deputy.  The following Sunday, I received  the Speaker and his Deputy Speaker coming to me for Sallah’s homage.  “But, I am just hearing a rumour now from the online media that there have been some announcements in the Senate and House of Representatives. The national headquarters of the party of the NWC has not given any such information or communicated about the choice of offices.  “And until we formally resolve and communicate with them in writing which is the norm and practice, it is not our intention to break away from tradition. So whatever announcement is done either the President of the Senate, Deputy Senate President, Speaker or Deputy Speaker, is not from this Secretariat.  “We are going to formally inform you that we are going to have a caucus, and for quite a time, there has been no caucus in place. The caucus has been reconstituted according to the constitution of APC. And we will be discussing that with you as governors, you know your states more than we know it. Even if we come from the same state, the leadership is in you as governors.”