Yinka Olatunbosun Children’s Day celebrations took a defining turn inside Thought Pyramid, Ikoyi, Lagos when a collective of creative students drawn from Okun Ajah Community Senior Secondary School, Olomu Community Senior School, Eti-Osa Community Senior Secondary school presented their artworks, launched an anthology of creative writings and staged a drama performance to the audience despite the heavy downpour in Lagos. It was a gratifying way to mark a global celebration in honour of children across ethnic or racial barriers. From wall to wall, miniature pieces of paintings and drawings revved up the youthful energy in the hall. Mostly boisterous, the students were drawn from senior secondary schools, and all of them do not have formal art education available in their schools. Still, their works are enthralling, thought-provoking in the group, show titled Visionary Voices. While some displayed remarkable skills in abstract paintings, others recreated their animation heroes with edgy lines and shades. The exhibiting artists include Alozie Ugochukwu, Bankole Faith, Enikanoselu Timileyin, Godfrey Akpan, Seje Joseph, Obuesi Chisom, Saluta Mabel, Akinlolu Fuhad, Moses Martins and Prosper Udoh. Visionary Voices is a project initiated by Odunayo Adegbaju, a chemistry teacher at Okun-Ajah Community Senior Secondary School to celebrate youthful artistry. She sought a partnership with Thought Pyramid Art Centre for its dedication to promoting artistic expression and fostering creative talent. “The values and mission of Thought Pyramid Art Centre aligned perfectly with the objectives of Visionary Voices,” Adegbaju said. “Both our organisations share a commitment to nurturing the creative potential of young artists and advocating for the importance of arts education. This shared vision created a strong foundation for our partnership and ensured a mutually beneficial collaboration. We needed partnership that would provide a solid foundation for the successful execution of Visionary Voices, enhancing the artistic experience for the students and promoting the importance of arts education in our community.” While reflecting on the joint literary effort by the students, Jeff Ajueshi, the artistic director, Thought Pyramid Art Centre described visionary voices as a testament to the power of collaboration and inclusivity. “Each poem, play, short story featured in the anthology Echoes and artwork on display represents a unique journey, showcasing the talent, resilience and creativity of these students through their creative writing and art, they invite us to explore their diverse perspectives and immerse ourselves in their imaginative realms,” he said. Ovie Omatsola, the exhibition director and senior curator, commended the students for the resilient display of creativity. “Your commitment, dedication and unyielding passion for the arts have made this exhibition and anthology a true testament to your talent and growth,” he said. Adegbaju, the project’s initiator revealed that proximity and convenience played a role in selecting the schools, all from District III in Lagos. Driven by a compelling vision to empower the next generation, she invested her time and resources in the growth and wholistic development of the child for long term societal benefits. “By encouraging students to explore their creative side, we unlock their inherent potential and enable them to express themselves authentically,’’ she said. “Engaging in artistic endeavours nurtures critical thinking skills, problem-solving abilities, and the capacity to approach challenges with an open mind. It fosters innovation and cultivates an appreciation for diverse perspectives. “Moreover, the creative arts provide a unique avenue for self-discovery and self-expression. Through artistic exploration, students discover their passions, develop their individual voices, and gain the confidence to share their unique perspectives with the world. This process empowers them to embrace their uniqueness and cultivate a sense of identity and purpose.” The project was adjudicated by a jury that included Wallace Ejoh, Faith Michael, Desmond Kakulu and Owosanya Aminat Owodamilola.