RingTrue  By  Yemi Adebowale Phone    08054699539 Email: yemi.adebowale@thisdaylive.com  The family and friends of Barrister Ahmad Muhammad slaughtered by terrorists in Zamfara State on Tuesday are still in shock. One of the numerous bands of terrorists ravaging the North-west invaded Muhammad’s home in Kwatarkwashi, Bungudu LGA, abducted and later killed him. His offence? He was actively involved in the resistance against terrorism in Kwatarkwashi. Let’s flip to last week’s daring abduction of seven residents of Yewuti village in Kwali Area Council of Abuja. They were snatched from the house of the late Chairman of Kwali Council, Alhaji Mohammed Gimba. The terrorists are demanding a N7 million ransom. As at press time, the abductees had not been freed. These are just a few recent pieces of evidence showing that terrorists are still very much active nationwide. They are moving around freely in the South-east, North-west, North-east and the North-central, killing, abducting and maiming, notwithstanding the emergence of a new government, with new security chiefs. The most traumatic was the killings by Fulani militias in Barkin-Ladi and Riyom LGAs of Plateau State last June. Over 120 people were sent to early graves. I’m worried that within the first 30 days of the Tinubu government, no fewer than 237 persons were killed in different attacks across the country by terrorists. This is an average of eight people per day. I’m talking about human lives here; and these are the reported cases. There are scores of unreported cases during this period under review. Tinubu has been silent about killings under his watch. He did not deem it fit to even visit ravaged communities and families in Plateau, Sokoto, Zamfara and the rest. This is a story for another day. Today’s piece is directed at the Chief of Defence Staff, Maj. Gen. Christopher Musa; Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen. Taoreed Lagbaja; Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Emmanuel Ogalla; Chief of Air Staff, AVM Hassan Abubakar and the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Kayode Egbetokun. These new guys need to note that the biggest drawback to the war against terrorism in the last 14 years is the unending lies by their predecessors. These precursors, whose opinions would have helped this country to tackle terrorism, became merchants of lies, rolling out imaginary security achievements. They also showed frightening ineptitude and enjoyed showboating while the country was on fire. That was why killings and abductions by terrorists became a daily occurrence under them with no part of Nigeria spared. Terrorists are very much alive and kicking all over Nigeria. This is the truth that must be told. It is the truth that must be faced head-on by these new service chiefs. Only this truth can set Nigeria free from the servitude of terrorists. All the lies by previous security chiefs that terrorists had been degraded must be pushed aside by our new security chiefs. Even in Borno State, ISWAP and Boko Haram are very much alive. Just three weeks back, the terrorists killed eight youths across communities in Mafa and Jere LGAs. Fifteen farmers were also killed in Molai and adjacent communities in Konduga LGA of the state. This war against terrorists can’t be won with lies. Our military lacks the capacity to end the war against terrorists but previous service chiefs refused to face this fact. It is pertinent to state that technology, intelligence, quality equipment and quality manpower are necessities for taming terrorists. Use of drones for intelligence gathering and attacks is also vital. Our security agencies lack these. They obviously lack the capacity to effectively monitor the movement of terrorists. This is why these guerrillas move around in hundreds undetected. The advanced world is in an era of fighting with drones. The drone that destroyed late Muammar Ghadaffi’s convoy was fired from a station in Alabama, United States. Our security agencies are not in any way close to this. Our gallant soldiers are doing their best but they need to be assisted. So, this country needs help from climes that can provide these military necessities and manpower. Nigeria’s previous security chiefs won’t admit this because of ego and personal gains. The immediate past Chief of Defence Staff, retired General Lucky Irabor, left me depressed with his rejection of the clamour for the engagement of foreign military contractors (mercenaries) to support the military in the fight against the terrorists. The fact that he completely ruled out engaging military contractors shows there are things we are not being told about this unending war. Irabor presented mercenaries as an army of occupation. This is not true. They are engaged by countries for specific purposes, with deadlines. It is not a crime to have military contractors joining a standing army to tame terrorists. Even the United States engaged military contractors for its war in Iraq and some other locations. Is Irabor not aware of this? A people-oriented government will seek help from anywhere to protect its people against terrorists. We can all see the sloppy result of Irabor’s claims that the military can do the job alone. The new service chiefs must seek help from climes that have successfully tamed terrorists. This country must seek assistance from private military contractors from these climes. I will always recommend Israeli military contractors. This is the way forward for Nigeria. The killings of soldiers by terrorists without consequences have persisted for so long; the new security heads must tame this. There are so many examples of such killings. I can’t forget how terrorists in 2022 killed 30 soldiers in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State, a direct assault on Nigeria, without repercussions. The then Commander-in-Chief, Muhammadu Buhari vowed that the attackers would not go unpunished. The killers were never apprehended. Also last year, terrorists killed 22 soldiers when they ambushed the convoy of the then Kebbi Deputy Governor, Sama’ila Dabai in Kanya, Danko/Wasagu LG of the state. Nothing happened in terms of ensuring the killers pay a heavy price. One of the deadliest massacres of Nigerian soldiers by Boko Haram took place in Metele, Borno State, in November 2018. Scores of soldiers were killed at 157 Task Force Battalion in the town. The exact casualty figure is still a closely-protected secret. The commander of the battalion, Lt. Col. Ibrahim Sakaba was also killed during the attack. The terrorists that carried out the operation were never smoked out and slaughtered. I will also not forget the massacre of soldiers in places like Sasawa, Magumeri, Malam Fatori, Gashigha, Rann, Kanama, Gamboru-Ngala, Mafa, Kunduga, Pridang-Bitta and the rest. The leadership of the military did not respond lethally. The new service chiefs must consistently avenge the killing of Nigerian soldiers. When terrorists kill security agents, the standard is for commanders to send forces after them and take their heads off. By this, they will drive a clear message to the terrorists that there is no room for nonsense. This will also hinder the remaining guerrillas from further atrocities. This is what I’m expecting from our new service chiefs. The new IG must do the same for his men. Scores of policemen have been killed by IPOB/ESN in the South-east without consequences. Similarly, early in 2022, the Divisional Police Officer of Nasko Station in Magama LG of Niger State, CSP Umar Dakingari, and six of his men were killed by terrorists without consequences. About the same time, the terrorists attacked a tomato processing company in Ngaski LGA of Kebbi State and killed four policemen. These happenings are really depressing and must be stopped. Morale is evidently low among officers and men on the war fronts. They often struggle for allowances and equipment. Many of them have overstayed on the war front, contrary to the rules of engagement, yet, they are not rotated. The new service chiefs must end these negatives. I also expect the new service chiefs to improve response to distress calls from communities when terrorists strike. Sometimes soldiers respond after the deed must have been done. In most cases, they don’t respond at all. For example, when terrorists attacked Kagoro Chiefdom, Kaura LGA of Kaduna State in December last year, they spent almost a whole day in Malagum and Sokwong communities, killing and maiming. These two communities are supposedly covered by a special military task force called Operation Safe Haven. But the terrorists were not in a hurry to leave because they were very sure they would not be repelled by security agents. By the time they eventually left, 39 people had been killed and the two communities left in ruins. The military failed to respond to distress calls. So, the terrorists confidently burnt almost all the buildings in Sokwong. These failings must be addressed by the new security chiefs. Still on Calamity Governor Yusuf Abba Yusuf was sworn in as Kano State Governor exactly 41 days ago today. Yet, we are not seeing moves to address pressing challenges of the state. There are challenges of child begging, drug abuse, illiteracy, poverty, maternal mortality and unemployment. It’s a long list. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, this state has over three million out-of-school children, the highest in Nigeria. No fewer than 10.5 million residents, representing 66.3 percent of the population, are poor. I thought Yusuf would, from day one, frontally start tackling these diverse problems confronting Kano State. It is depressing to note that nothing is happening in this direction. Yusuf is only interested in destroying anything and anybody with links to former governor Abdullahi Ganduje with his Executive lawlessness. That was why the Kano governor, fresh from his inauguration, revoked ownership and allocation papers of buildings overnight without due process. He was not interested in anything called the rule of law. Yusuf was reckless. I was shocked that in his inaugural speech, he directed the police to immediately take over all land and properties supposedly illegally sold to “cronies and agents” of Ganduje. Instantly, he started demolishing private and public property. My dear Yusuf, we are in a democracy which is anchored on law and due process. You must act within the laws of our land. Besides, these demolitions can’t add any value to the lives of the good people of the state. All demolitions must end. I will like to see you concentrating on the pressing problems of the state listed earlier in this piece. A word is enough for the wise. Tajudeen Abbas and His 33 Aides  There is so much pain in the land; we are regularly told to stomach it. Nigerians are constantly told to endure the pains of President Tinubu’s economic policies and cut expenses. Unfortunately, those in government are living big amid the burdens of Nigerians. They are not expected to cut any cost to help this country but to add more. One of such is the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Tajudeen Abass. This man cares less about cutting the cost of governance. Abbas has so far appointed 33 aides with all sorts of comical portfolios. He says the appointments are for effective delivery of his legislative agenda. What nonsense! This is why Nigeria is rated one of Africa’s worst-governed countries (based on the cost of governance), ranking 37th of 52 countries on the Mo Ibrahim Index of African Governance. This waste must not continue. Abbas must drastically trim this huge retinue of aides in order to reduce the cost of governance.