Chido Nwangwu writes about the strange find of cocaine in the West Wing of the Oval Office in the White House, Washington DC which is currently being investigated by the Secret Service of the United States. It sounds more like a tale from the unexpected. Media and people are asking how did this cocaine stuff get into the White House? Some people have been wondering: who are the consumers of cocaine in the White House? The man who is always in the news especially for the wrong reasons, former President Donald J. Trump, has chimed in with his own bizarre spin: “Does anybody really believe that the COCAINE found in the West Wing of the White House, very close to the Oval Office, is for the use of anyone other than Hunter (Biden) & Joe Biden.” For Mr. Trump to write such scatological nonsense shows how desperate his company has become. It also exposes his lack of decorum and standards on how far one should go with strong language of disagreement and attacks on your opponents. Essentially, Trump called the President of the United States, Joe Biden, a drug user — as he alleged on his low count social media site,  Truth Social. I just thought of the discomfort that even many right wing members of the Republican party have regarding his latest quest to come back as president, again. One of the favorite and winning topics for Trump has remained the strong and toxic attacks against the liberal media which he calls “the Fake News Media.” Mocking those, Trump is predicting that the media will “soon start saying it wasn’t really COCAINE, but rather common ground up Aspirin, & the story will vanish.” There is a restrained answer from the White House: “Where this was discovered is a heavily-traveled area where many White House – West Wing, I should be even more specific, West Wing visitors come through this particular area, I just don’t have anything more to share,” said White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre to reporters Wednesday,  July 5, 2023 Still on the question of who would have brought in and kept the cocaine in the vicinity of the most powerful presidential address in the world, investigators are mainly from the Secret Service. Many in the Republican party’s grassroots base believe the boisterous Trump. He has labeled Special Counsel Jack Smith, saying to the delight of his audience that Smith “looks like a crackhead to me!” The truth is that, facially, the man has a menacing look and it doesn’t make him a crackhead! If I were Smith, I would return the favor and call Trump a duckhead or something that’s spelled like it!  -Dr Nwangwu, is Founder of the first African-owned, U.S-based newspaper on the internet, USAfricaonline.com Follow him on Twitter @Chido247