David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka The Senator representing Anambra Central senatorial district, Victor Umeh, has been appointed the Chancellor of Tansian University, Anambra State. The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Eugene Nwadialor, announced this at the weekend, when he led a delegation of the institution’s management to visit Umeh in Aguluizigbo, Anaocha Local Government Area of the state. The VC presented a letter of appointment to Umeh, saying his antecedents and pedigree as a great achiever and dogged fighter for people’s freedom and rights informed the university’s choice of him as its chancellor. He said: “You have been part of the university as one of the first honorary doctoral degree awardees of Tansian University, and we have looked at your pedigree and doggedness before settling for you. “We are here on a mission to deliver a letter to you as the chancellor of Tansian University, which you have been part of. “We have found you worthy. You are a committed and dogged man, and the board considered that you be appointed the chancellor of the university. “We want you to bring that commitment and doggedness you are known for to put Tansian University on the world map.” Umeh, while responding, expressed happiness about being found worthy for the position, promising to work with the board and management of the university to uplift it to a worthy citadel of learning. He said: “I’m happy about this, but the truth is that the chancellors of universities I have always known are first class monarchs, emirs and many other high people in society in that mould. “This is a call to serve. To have looked around and considered me fit for it, I will take it. The responsibility will entail a lot of dedication. “I considered the people on the board of the university before accepting this offer, and I will join you to uplift this university to a worthy citadel of learning. It is an honour and privilege to be appointed by your university.”  The founder of the university, Rev Fr Monsignor JohnBosco Akam, who was the chancellor of the university died in 2021 after a brief illness.