Felix Anyansi-Agwu is doing all it takes to continue as Enyimba chairman, having been replaced by Nigeria and Arsenal legend, Nwankwo Kanu, on Sunday.  According to Soccernet.ng, Kanu, 46, was appointed as the Peoples’ Elephant’s new boss by the Abia State Government – to end the 24-year-old reign of the experienced proprietor, Vice President of the Nigerian Football Federation.  A top source of the Aba Elephant confirmed this to Soccernet.ng while claiming players and officials of the reigning Nigeria Professional Football League kings are already looking forward to life under the two-time Africa Player of the Year winner.  “It is true that [Nwankwo] Kanu has been named as our new chairman, but our former boss Anyansi is doing everything possible to hold on to that position,” the source who pleaded anonymity said.  “Well, I don’t know what informed this decision, but in life, only change is constant. I can hint you that most of the players and officials are excited with this development and can’t wait to get going under the football legend.”  Under Anyansi, Enyimba has risen from a relatively unknown status to one of Africa’s most successful clubs.  Aside from helping the Aba-based outfit emerge as NPFL winners for a record ninth time, he played a key role as the team ruled Africa twice – first in 2003, then defending their title successfully in 2004.  Kanu’s appointment will see him reunite with former international teammate Finidi George. Both players were part of Louis van Gaal’s Ajax which won the UEFA Champions League in 1995 following a 1-0 triumph over Serie A outfit AC Milan inside Ernst-Happel Stadium in Vienna.  Kanu started his professional career with Iwuanyanwu Nationale (now Heartland) in the 1992-93 campaign after impressing at Holy Ghost College in Owerri.  Still fresh from that triumph, Kanu captained Nigeria to the gold medal at the 1996 Olympics, inspiring a move to Inter Milan. He also played for the Gunners, West Bromwich Albion and Portsmouth in his career that spanned 20 years.  Kanu was a member of the Arsenal ‘Invincibles’, the Arsene Wenger-led side that went a whole season undefeated in the English Premier League.  He would be hoping to lead Enyimba to a successful outing in next season’s CAF Champions League, as well as winning the NPFL for the tenth time.