In a country where life expectancy is barely 52, turning 70 seems almost like a rare privilege that is not available to too many. Born with a silver spoon, Onueze Chukwujinka Joe Okocha, OFR, SAN, JP, DSSRS (OCJ), by sheer determination then propelled himself into greatness. As the former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) turned 70 last Thursday, June 29, 2023, friends, colleagues and family gathered at the NBA Port Harcourt Branch Secretariat on Friday to celebrate the septuagenarian at a Public Lecture. The august occasion was also used to unveil his autobiography, ‘The Moon Also Shines’. His friends Chief Bayo Ojo, SAN; Dr Olisa Agbakoba, SAN; Awa Kalu, SAN; and His Royal Highness, David Serena-Dokubo Spiff join the sons of OCJ Okocha, Ogbonda and Dr Orowhuo Okocha in showering encomia on him  Congratulations to OCJ Okocha, SAN, a Rare Breed of a Gentleman  Chief Bayo Ojo, CON, SAN It gives me great pleasure to join family, friends, colleagues, and associates of Chief OCJ Okocha, OFR, SAN, JP to congratulate him on the occasion of his 70th Birthday. At some point in the early stages of life, one aspires to what the future holds. But today, we can look back and thank God Almighty for all that he has enabled him to achieve, and for keeping us alive in good health and sound mind till this moment to felicitate with him. There is no doubt that he has had a brilliant career, with his contributions as a trailblazer in his chosen field, the legal profession. He is an inspiration and a role model to many, and his achievements are indelibly engraved in Nigeria’s jurisprudence as one of Nigeria’s finest, which is evident in his being acclaimed as a renowned legal luminary and a rare breed of a gentleman. As he celebrates his 70th birthday, I pray that God will grant him sound health, peace of mind and all-round fulfilment to continue to contribute to national development and nation building. I wish him many happy returns. Chief Bayo Ojo, CON, SAN, former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice As My Dear Friend OCJ Turns 70! Dr Olisa Agbakoba, SAN Chief OCJ Okocha, SAN, popular by his acronym – OCJ is a dear friend on many, many fronts. He is also a brilliant Lawyer, and achieved so many firsts. We were classmates at Law school in 1978, the best achieving class in the history of the Law School. We were classmates at the renowned University of London College systems, I at London School of Economics and OCJ, at the Famous UCL. OCJ became of the youngest Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association, Port Harcourt Branch, followed in quick succession as Attorney-General of Rivers State. OCJ was not done taking Silk and getting into early service at the NBA, to become the Millennium President of our great Association in 2000. I was appointed by OCJ to the Body of Benchers without any solicitation, for which I’m very grateful. I am now a ranking Life Bencher. OCJ was not done, becoming the Chairman of the Council of Legal Education, and topped it up with the icing on the cake as Chairman of the Body of Benchers!!!!  OCJ is also my Younger brother, in age and relationship. His Mother is from my village, Umuasele, in Onitsha. So, we have a professional connection, family relationship and friendship from a long time!! I am very proud to welcome OCJ to the 7th floor of life. I joined this exclusive club on 29 May, 2023. I raise a whiskey glass, in honour of my friend and brother. I salute his lovely and loyal wife, Ifeoma and all the kids. To my dear Friend and Brother!!  Dr  Olisa Agbakoba, SAN,  former President of the Nigerian Bar Association OCJ Okocha, OFR, SAN: A Man of The Bar! Awa U. Kalu SAN, FNIALS Whether you call him “OCJ”, “Onez”, “My President”, “Juju Priest”, or “My Man”, you will be making reference to the same person – a colossus in size and in achievements. Unknown to many, O.C.J Okocha, OFR, SAN, somehow, means “Prosperity foretold” For, “O” stands for Onueze, i.e. the mouth, the word or the spokesman of the King or God; “C” is for Chukwujinka i.e. God has His design, moves in a mysterious way; and “J” is for Joe or Joseph. Okocha – his surname- reminds one of the quintessential Jay Jay Okocha, the former Captain and No. 10 player in the very illustrious Super Eagles during his playing career. He was a wonderful “No. 10” and the heartbeat of the Super Eagles of his time. The reader would find some coincidence between the younger Jay Jay Okocha’s career, and what will follow this introduction of O.C.J Okocha – “OCJ” as he is generally known and appreciated. How We Met I recall that OCJ and I met in the last quarter of the year 1973, when he arrived from Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and I from Umuahia in the then East Central State, now Abia State, in response to the offer for undergraduate studies in Law by the then University of Ife, Ile-Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University). He and I were interested in sports, particularly athletics, and had to undergo some tests for the purpose of getting into the University sports team, which at the time was necessary for gaining accommodation on Campus. OCJ made the University team and lived on campus, and I did not quite make the cut for which reason my first session was spent at the University Off-Campus accommodation at Ifewara. Of course, Off-Campus had its thrills and frills, while those on campus had their own peculiar experiences.  But, OCJ and I hit it off from the first day we arrived, and, to date, a lot of those who knew us at the time still ask me about my brother OCJ, and our friendship still remains quite warm and close. Both of us graduated on the same day in flying colours and proceeded to the only campus of the Nigerian Law School, which was in Victoria Island, Lagos, at the time. Today, that single Law School Campus has yielded to campuses in Kano, Port Harcourt, Yenagoa, Enugu, Yola and Bwari, Abuja (Headquarters). Both of us have had experience as home grown Lawyers; but, in his own case, he had a stint for his LL.M at University College, London. Take note, that this is not about us. It is about OCJ, who only a few days ago, turned 70 while I did so on the 9th of March this year. OCJ’s Legal Journey  I have conferred on myself, the indulgence of calling OCJ, A Man of the Bar. This is because, it is my belief that he and Chief Wole Olanipekun, CON, SAN, are the two Nigerian Lawyers that probably, have been decorated with all the titles available to a Nigerian Lawyer. To that extent, OCJ is on record as the Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association, Port Harcourt Branch (1986-1989); Attorney-General/Commissioner for Justice, Rivers State (1990-1992); Chairman, Nigerian Bar Association, Port Harcourt (1994-1996); President, Nigerian Bar Association (2000-2002). Climbing the staircase and the ladder of success was not difficult for OCJ, for, he also served as Member, Federal Judicial Service Commission (2000-2005); Chairman, Judiciary Service Committee, Nigerian Bar Association (2005-2006); Member, National Judicial Council (NJC) (2010-2014); Chairman, Council of Legal Education (2012-2016); Vice Chairman, Body of Benchers (2019-2020); Chairman, Body of Benchers (2020-2021). As a Bar man, OCJ has for long been a member of the International Bar Association; has also for long been a Notary Public, and is presently a Life Bencher. To cap his achievements as a Lawyer, the Nation having taken notice of his service to the Legal Profession, decorated him as an Officer of the Federal Republic (OFR). OCJ is the prophet, who is also known in his hometown. He is adorned with the title Eze Enwa Gbaganu-Oha of Obio, in the famous Ikwerre Land of Rivers State. Indeed, he is acknowledged in Duncan Mighty’s “Port Harcourt Boy”, in which notable Ikwerre dignitaries as well as doyens of Port Harcourt (The Garden City) are prominently recognised. In the panthium of the Garden City, Duncan Mighty took note of erstwhile Governors of Rivers State –  Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, Nyesom Wike, as well as Tonye Harry, Kenneth Kobani, Timi Alaibe, King Edward Pepple, Akarolo Chimbiko and so on. The reader may not be aware that OCJ took a long while to ensure that he had garnered all the other laurels after being a “Chiefson” for a long time – his grandfather having been a Paramount Ruler.  Looking at OCJ as a person, being tall, prominently handsome with a regal bearing, you must appreciate that he has been illimitable and destined to be as present as he has been for a long while. OCJ at the University was my roommate for two sessions, and my course mate at the Nigerian Law School, Victoria Island, Lagos for another session, for which reason, I have the authority and distinguished privilege to write every single word that I have written, except that I would reserve the rest of my knowledge until appropriate fees are paid as consultancy.  On a final note, OCJ must be acknowledged as one of the pacesetters of the Nigerian Law School Class of 1978 – the Golden Class that has produced the highest number of indigenous Justices of the Supreme Court, as well as the Court of Appeal; the most number of past Presidents of the Nigerian Bar Association, past Attorneys-General of different States of the Federation (one Attorney-General of the Federation), as well as the highest number of members of the Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria. This class has also contributed, the tallest members of the Body of Senior Advocates of Nigeria. A man is known by the company he keeps. It is instructive to acknowledge that behind, beside, or in front of every successful man there is a woman, and I state with unqualified confidence that OCJ, at the celebration of his 70th birthday, must have a very beautiful, dutiful and elegant woman beside him. Permit me to ask all the readers of this tribute to give Ifeoma O.C.J. seventy big gbosas, and half of seventy gbosas to his handsome sons and beautiful daughters. I know that OCJ will not celebrate another seventy years (being an orphan), but may God Almighty grant him good health to celebrate another thirty or more, in prosperity and in the full presence of his loving family. Awa  Kalu, SAN,  former Attorney-General of Abia State All Hail Onueze Chukwujinka Joe Okocha — OCJ, OFR, SAN,  on his Arrival at the Proverbial Seventh Floor !  David Serena-Dokubo Spiff It is common feature of society these days, that whenever a person becomes extraordinarily accomplished, his initials instantly metamorphose to his name !  JFK, MKO, OBJ, IBB, GEJ, BAT etc, are veritable examples. Thus, “O.C.J.“ is no longer initials, but the universally acknowledged name of that physically and professionally gargantuan personality,  OCJ Okocha, OFR, SAN, JP, etc.  The Urbane, Intelligent,  physically present, handsome, conscientious, legal juggernaut and community leader, is certainly one of the best-known remarkable personalities of our time, in this clime.  At the University of Ife in the seventies (now Obafemi Awolowo University), OCJ excelled not only in academics, but also in extracurricular activities, especially athletics. There, he was specially trained by one of the best athletes in the World at the time — the legendary American Sprinter, Lee Evans. Lee had won two gold medals in the 1968 Summer Olympics, setting world records in the 400 metres and the 4 × 400 metres relay, both of which stood for 20 and 24 years respectively.  He knew and mentored OCJ personally, and had tremendous regard for him.  In social circles, OCJ so excelled, that he was second to none in the glitterati of Port Harcourt municipality, or wherever he tarried even for a brief moment. His vibrant activities in  “the other space” are still being collated and, subject to approval of his other half,  his beloved wife (Aunty Ifeoma), could form the main plank of the next chapter of this piece. That notwithstanding, trust me, not even the joint exploits with his all-time best friend, Architect Harcourt Adukeh, in the small hours at Lido Night Club, Coppa Cabana, Club 67, Land of Canaan or at the Beacon Disco Bar, at Ile Ife, can blight his extraordinary academic attainments. To put things in full context, in the 1970s Great Ife, nubile, teenage ‘chicks’ would hold eligibles at “breast-point” and say, “take me to Beacon”! Good boy OCJ survived all that, for he was imbued with a massive dose of personal discipline, never to be distracted by what the great Ray Ekpu in another context, would call  “the pursuit of lascivious passion”!  OCJ, to me Onez or Onny, Co-Member of the Nigerian Law School Diamond Class of  1978, deserves to be venerated, applauded and celebrated.  He has achieved virtually everything that’s there to achieve in the Legal Profession , and in society at-large.  Let the drums roll for this Living Legend ! I salute you, Onez, on this laudable milestone. Bravo, pride of our City, our State and our nation !!! HRH Sir David Serena-Dokubo Spiff (LLB, BL), the Amadabo of Spiff Town, Ada Ama, Twon Brass, Bayelsa State OCJ Okocha SAN: My Father and I Ogbonda C. J. Okocha I would like to join my voices to those who are celebrating the 70th Birthday Anniversary of my father, O. C. J. OKOCHA, OFR, SAN, JP, DSSRS, whom I affectionately refer to as Paps! I am his first son and eldest child, and my full name is Ogbonda Chinedum Johnathan Okocha, which means that my initials are also O. C. J.  In celebrating my father, I thank God for keeping him hale and hearty these last 70 years, and I hope and pray that God keeps him in good health and spirits for many, many more years. May he never know lack, and may his dreams continue to come true. HAPPY BIRTHDAY PAPS!!! Ogbonda C. J. Okocha  As I Celebrate my Dad OCJ at 70 Orowhuo W. A. Okocha, Esq., PhD I am the second son of O. C. J. OKOCHA, OFR, SAN, JP, DSSRS, the Founder and Managing Solicitor of the Law Firm of OKOCHA & OKOCHA, an illustrious shining light in the Legal Profession, and the holder of the Chieftaincy title of EZE ENWA-GBAGANU-OHA of Obio Kingdom, which title translates to “the Moon that shines over everyone”. I am also a Legal Practitioner, and his Partner at OKOCHA & OKOCHA.  Without sounding immodest, my father has most definitely excelled in the Legal Profession, and has definitely built a legacy to be admired and envied. He has literally achieved all that can be achieved within the Legal Profession, with perhaps, the only achievement I can recall that he has yet to attain being the position of the Attorney-General of the Federation. If you type his name into your preferred online search engine, you will understand what I am talking about. As a Legal Practitioner myself, it is very easy to feel as though I am perpetually in his shadow, and I had my own role to play in creating this feeling. On Sunday, the 29th of June, 2003, at the jollification to celebrate my father’s 50th birthday, I made a speech wherein I laid down a gauntlet, and challenged myself to be greater than him, to the point that I concluded the said speech by saying that someday, people would refer to us as “Oros and his Dad”, rather than “OCJ and his son”. Twenty years later, this has not happened! I also made a joke that when prospective clients show up at the law firm looking for “Barrister Okocha”, that they would be asked “the Dr or the SAN?”. Again, even despite my repeated admonitions to our secretaries and administrative staff, this has never happened. Instead, these same staff are perpetuating my “misery” by continuing to ask prospective clients if they are there to see “OCJ or his son?” It also didn’t help that, despite all that he had achieved in the legal profession by his 50th birthday, he has not slowed down, and has continued to rack up achievements and honours in the last 20 years. It is well. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing should not be misconstrued as a complaint. On the contrary, I constantly remind myself of the speech I made at his 50th birthday as motivation, and I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to practice law in the same jurisdiction as my father, and to have a relationship with him that transcends our personal lives into a professional relationship. Growing up, I can recollect that my father somehow managed to straddle being a disciplined, hardworking professional, as well as being a jolly good fellow, and a wonderful person to have in attendance at parties and social gatherings. From an early age, I recall that people spoke glowingly of his antics in the courtroom and, as far as I could eavesdrop, there were a lot of rib-cracking jokes told at the parties we often had at home. He was also a strict disciplinarian when necessary, yet, at the same time, allowed us, his children, the freedom to be our own individuals and to chase our own dreams. From an early age, I realised that he gave his all in all that he did, be it business or pleasure, and it inspired and influenced my approach to life today – I try to work hard and play hard at the same time, and to constantly strike the balance where my work ethic does not stop me from having all the fun I want, neither does my proclivity to have a good time detract from my ability to deliver work correctly and on time. For those who may wonder, although I concede to the possibility of an inadvertent or subtle influence, I make bold to say that my father did not attempt to influence or direct my decision to study law, nor did he attempt to overly influence or direct the professional path taken by any of his children. Instead, he left us to our devices.  Thankfully, my father supported my dreams, even when it seemed as though they might not have come to fruition, and provided, in the numerous ways parents provide for their children, when I embarked on a six-year sojourn after my Call to the Nigerian Bar in pursuit of both an LLM and a PhD. Upon my return to practice, I have witnessed firsthand my father’s disciplined and admirable work ethic, including his ability to work weekends and on public holidays, despite his age, both biologically and at the Bar; and, while our professional relationship has evolved and continues to evolve over the years, two things have remained constant and consistent: the first is that he is result-driven – as long as you deliver on work correctly and on time, you are free to do as you like in your own time, with no attempt to micromanage your affairs; and, secondly, our relationship is firmly compartmentalised – work conversations are to be held in the office, and family conversations are to be held at home. The latter is particularly important for a healthy work-life balance, because even though we occasionally tease each other about working on weekends and public holidays, it has transcended to my own growing family, and I rarely take work home, so my wife knows that she only has to contend with our son (and basketball) for my attention when I am out of the office. Overall, being a Legal Practitioner that is the son of an illustrious, perspicacious Legal Practitioner, is like living in the shadow of the moon. Focusing only on the positives, he is the first point of reference and comparison to those who observe me in practice, and I don’t think I have ever been in any courtroom or gathering of Lawyers where I have not been recognised as being his son. I don’t mind this, however, as a result of the fact that my current professional path is a fulfilment of a boyhood dream. I shall now conclude this essay by saying that, on the personal front, as my father crosses this threshold of 70 and forays deeper into old age, I wish him all that he wishes himself. I hope that he continues to do all the things that he loves, but I hope that he makes a conscious decision to slow down, where necessary, on work and the things that burden him, so that while he continues living the life that he enjoys, he does so without the attendant stress that comes from having too much on one’s plate.  Above all, I pray that God Almighty continues to guard, guide and protect him, and grants him his heart’s desires. Professionally speaking, also, I relish the daily opportunity to live in the shadow of the moon, and hope that I can be a source of inspiration to others, as he has inspired me, and also hope that someday soon, prospective clients will not have to choose between “the Dr and the SAN”, but will have to answer “which SAN?” HAPPY 70TH BIRTHDAY POPS!!! Orowhuo W. A. Okocha, Esq., PhD (“Oros”)