Raheem Akingbolu Heineken, one of the world’s most recognised beer brands, is marking its 150th anniversary with an unconventional celebration of the many ways the brand has been nicknamed, misspelled or mis-served over the years. According to the management of Nigerian Breweries, the celebration is to showcase how good times and sparking true connections over a beer are, in the end, what matters most. To celebrate this milestone anniversary, the brand is putting good times front and centre of its global birthday festivities. At a press conference in Lagos to announce plans for the anniversary, Portfolio Manager – Premium, Sessionable & 0.0 Lager, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Sampson Oloche, said, “In celebration of our 150th anniversary and our deep ties to Nigeria, we have exciting plans specifically designed for our Nigerian consumers. “We will be organising events in key cities across the country, where our valued consumers can come together and experience the true essence of gezelligheid. These celebrations will showcase the vibrancy of the Nigerian culture, featuring live music, entertainment, and unforgettable moments that capture the spirit of Heineken. “But that’s not all. We are also planning massive rewards for our loyal consumers, media partners, distributors, and retailers who have been instrumental in our journey. We recognize and appreciate their unwavering support, and we want to celebrate them by offering exclusive experiences, exciting prizes, and special recognition for their contribution to our success.” Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Hans Essaadi, said: “As we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the Heineken brand, we remain committed to strengthening our presence in Nigeria and continuing our journey of fostering positive change. “We look forward to building on our legacy and creating more opportunities for growth, collaboration and shared moments of joy with Nigerians. To express our gratitude to our loyal fans and consumers in Nigeria, we will be unveiling a series of anniversary celebrations, kicking off this July 2023. These events will be a demonstration of our commitment to spreading the spirit of good times and embracing the gezelligheid lifestyle that Heineken represents!”