Yinka Kolawole in Osogbo The Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has comforted the people of the state over the choice of the new set of the commissioner-nominees rolled out by the state Governor, Ademola Adeleke, which was announced by the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, the Right Honourable Adewale Egbedun, yesterday. The party described it as the worst assemblage of the government actors that would ever be witnessed in the history of the state, insisting that it has further exposed another failed promise of the Adeleke-led administration. The state Chairman of the APC, Sooko Tajudeen Lawal, in a statement issued by the state party Director of Media and Information, Chief Kola Olabisi, in Osogbo at the weekend, stated that there was nothing to celebrate about the “Galaxy of Hallelujah men and women who will be annoyingly entrusted with the governance of the state through their various ministries.” Lawal, however, stated that it would not be proper to be collective in his castigation of the Adeleke administration cluster as there are few ones “in the horrible, horrendous and obnoxious commissioner-nominees list that have distinguished themselves in their callings either in private endeavours or public offices.”  He clinically observed that “the literarily pieces of bent firewood among the batch could not, in anyway, be an asset to the administration of the rudderless Adeleke’s government. “What are we even saying about the composition of the Adeleke administration commissioner-nominees?  Can a government be better than the quality of the head of such government? The answer is No! “It is an impossible Utopia as one cannot plant corn and expect to harvest banana no matter the injection of the intervention of a scientific methodology.” Lawal also observed that the highlighted portion of the commissioner-nominees scenario that “is hyper offensive to the sensibilities of the discerning minds in the state is the governor’s explanation that a wife of his late brother, one Mrs. Adenike Folashade Adeleke, could not be counted as a member of his immediate family in Ede.” He disclosed that all efforts by Governor Adeleke “to confuse and convince any right-thinking members of the society with any grammatical and political chicanery to prove that he is not truly guilty of nepotism has fallen flat as in the Nigerian parlance, once a woman is married to any particular family, she has wholly become a part and parcel of such family.” He noted that the list of the Adeleke commissioner-nominees further vindicated the Osun State chapter of the APC on the allegation that there were “serpents with divided loyalty in the party as two chieftains of the defunct self-styled The Osun Progressives (TOP) under the ‘patronship’ of former Minister of Interior, Mr. Rauf Aregbesola, in the persons of Kolapo Alimi and Mr. Biyi Odunlade, made the list. This further attests to the fact that there has been a secret alliance between the TOP members and the PDP.”