David-Chyddy Eleke in Awka A human rights and democracy group, International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law (Intersociety), has heavily criticised former President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, saying his government failed Nigerians. The group in a statement signed by its Board of Trustees (BoT) Chairman, Mr. Emeka Umeagbalasi, and two other members of the group said Buhari’s eight years as president was characterised by killings, kidnappings, suffering, poverty and high cost of living. Intersociety stated that in the history of the country, no civilian administration has been more atrocious than the past government. The group also rated some past governors, saying the trio of former Governors of Kaduna, Rivers, and Ebonyi States, Nasir el-Rufai, Nyesom Wike and Dave Umahi respectively, were the worst at sub-national level, while Imo State Governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, is the most dangerous sitting governor presently. The statement, which was issued in Anambra State yesterday and made available to THISDAY in Awka, said Buhari ran a government that targeted the Christian population in Nigeria, and also the South-easterners for destruction, while also shielding and emboldening perpetrators of mass killings. According to the statement, “The out-gone eight years of the central civilian administration of retired Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (as he was then) and Prof Yemi Osinbajo (May 29, 2015 to May 29, 2023) is the most atrocious civilian administration that ever existed in Nigeria, particularly since May 29, 1999, when the country returned to civil rule. “The exited central government of Retired Major General Buhari (as he was then) and Prof Yemi Osinbajo is atrociously found to have run a ‘Government for the Destruction of Easterners and Christians’ during which the government energies and resources, especially borrowed funds, were channeled towards systematic annihilation of Christians and defenseless citizens of Old Eastern Nigeria. “It is on record that till date, no single senior security officer has been apprehended and severely punished for his or her grisly and egregiously involvement or role in the large-scale violations or abuses of human rights in Nigeria or any part thereof since July 2015. “The out-gone government of Buhari-Osinbajo also earned notoriety in shielding the perpetrators and emboldening them to perpetrate more with impunity, leading to unchecked cases of ‘repeat-perpetrations or offences’.” The group said it was time for the international community and human rights organisations across the It added: “Human rights abuses and violations unleashed on citizens or group of citizens were also in ‘industrial scale’ and amounted to crimes against humanity and other internationally prohibited acts or conducts. “It is therefore time for accountability for the variously documented mass atrocities. All eyes are now on the International Criminal Court (ICC), which had severally announced “the opening of investigations on Nigeria for possible crimes against humanity or war crimes since November 18, 2010. “This is more so when Nigeria has failed woefully to adhere strictly to the ‘Principle of Complementarity and Zero Impunity’ by demonstrating its inability and unwillingness to act domestically to fish out the perpetrators and bring them to account using its domestic justice frameworks.”