Segun James The Lagos State Government has established a technical working group on social protection implementation for the State. Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Ibrahim Obajomo disclosed this at an event to install the committee at Dover Hotel, Ikeja, recently. Obajomo, who also chairs the implementation committee, disclosed that the social protection policy implementation would focus on six major areas – social assistance; social care; social insurance; labour market interventions; system strengthening and provision of complementary measures. Obajomo explained that the state government in her efforts to demonstrate commitment to the principle of shared prosperity and accelerate inclusive growth approved the establishment of Social Protection Coordinating Department (SPCD) in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget, with a view to develop on a continuous basis, the standards and systems for efficient and effective tracking of Social Interventions and Social Investments, aimed at eradication of poverty in the State. He said the ministry “has been mandated to champion the implementation of Lagos State Social Protection Policy (LASPP) and coordination of all social protection related activities as well as, providing a holistic approach to poverty reduction in the State. “The social protection policy implementation shall focus on six major areas, which are: social assistance, social care, social insurance, labour market interventions, system strengthening; and provision of complementary measures. “Therefore, the state government seeks to adopt a balanced framework that promotes equality and security aimed at addressing the trajectory of citizens’ apathy especially in recent years. This was the reason for the identification of major stakeholders to the achievement of these key Policy objectives. “It is in this regard, that all Social-Functional MDAs have been mapped and Focal Persons nominated from these Agencies. Today, we are gathered here to witness the official inauguration of the Technical Working Group on Social Protection Implementation in Lagos State.” While pledging continued state government support to the development of a viable social protection system, Obajomo appealed to all stakeholders to cooperate with the Ministry and embrace the new dispensation in the drive to banish poverty from our State. He acknowledged the significant support received from UNICEF, UNDP, FGN/NASSCO, STANBIC IBTC, MDAs, NGOs and CSOs and urged them to a renewed effort and increased collaboration on the part of other stakeholders, with all efforts geared towards uplifting the vulnerable and achievement of shared prosperity.