In a colourful gathering of women drawn from different Chinese national residing in Nigeria,  The Association of Chinese Women in Nigeria celebrated its 6th year anniversary to commensurate 2023 Mother’s Day at Oriental hotels in Lagos. The Association of Chinese Women was founded in 2017 with the aim of promoting friendship and cooperation among Chinese women living in Nigeria. Over the years, it has organized various events and activities aimed at supporting the vulnerable in the society, and promoting cultural exchange between China and Nigeria. In his congratulatory letter sent to the association, the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Cui Jian chun said, “Six years is just a short moment in the long history, but it is the long journey for the Association of Chinese Women in Nigeria, from gestation, germination, rooting to growth, flowering and fruiting which the association has gone through, after going through ups and downs and going through wind and rain, they can finally thrive and see a rainbow.” “I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely hope that the association will continue to work hard, unite with other Chinese associations in Nigeria, stand together through thick and thin, and create a brighter tomorrow with more brilliant achievements.” Also, the Director, Office of the Chinese Consulate General in Lagos, Zheng Yong encouraged the association to continue to advocate and promote positive energy, and further unite the vast number of women, while also to devote themselves to improving the comprehensive quality and ability of women, and to make greater contributions to the progress and liberation of women compatriots, and to     strengthen relationship with the local women’s community in Nigeria. In her welcome remarks the President of the Association of Chinese Women, Zhou Jun, gave a speech highlighting the achievements of the association over the past six years. She spoke about how the association had provided a platform for Chinese women in Nigeria to come together, share their experiences, and support each other. Jun said, “Since its establishment, the association has been spreading the Chinese culture, as well as caring and giving back to the local society, this demonstrates the image of Chinese women who are hardworking, generous and beautiful.” “The Chinese Women Association will continue to show love and kindness towards the less privileged and also do more public welfare and charity in the society.” As part of the anniversary celebrations, the association made a donation of one million Naira to IJAMIDO Children Home, an orphanage home in Ogun state. The donation was presented to the children of IJAMIDO Children’s Home. The representative of IJAMIDO Children Home, Mrs Irmgard Willams expressed her gratitude to the Association for their generosity. She said that the donation would go a long way in providing for the children at the orphanage home. The event was also marked by cultural performances by Hua axing Art Troupe, students of Confucius Institute Unilag and.   members of the association, showcasing traditional Chinese dances and music. Guests were treated to a sumptuous Chinese banquet.