Mary Nnah A non-government organisation, Karis and Eleos Hand of Hope Foundation has partnered the Nigerian Bottling Company ( NBC) to empower 322 women in  Idu, Karmajiji and Kuchigoro communities in Abuja in commemoration of NBC’s  70th anniversary in Nigeria. Speaking at the presentation of starter packs to 28 women who passed through a successful training during the graduation ceremony of an empowerment training, the Project officer of the organisation, Chikezie Ekechukwu noted that the mandate of the organisation is to train women within the age of sixty years and below to enable them to fend for their families. He said the NBC EmpowerHer project, trains women based on need assessment in their communities and has trained 322 in baking, household cleaning agents, balm production, make-up and bead making. While urging the participants to commence their business immediately after receiving their starter pack, Ekechukwu noted that with the few women that participated in the training programme it was expected that knowledge will be transferred to more women in the communities through the participant to enhance the economy of the country. Ekechukwu called on other corporate bodies in Nigeria to join hands in creating empowerment programmes for more women and youths to reduce poverty and improve security in the country. Also speaking, NBC Regional  Public Affairs and Communication Manager, Abuja and North, Mr. Aminu Mohammed,  said the NBCEmpowerHer  Project is a major focus for NBC for the development and sustainability of the community, he expressed his gratitude that the purpose was achieved while noting that 125 women were the initial target but 322 were empowered to accommodate more women. Another partner, president AfriGrowth Foundation, Mrs. Dayo Keshi explained that women have strong intuitions and can change the world when determined, adding that the NBC EmpowerHer project will go a long way to change destinies and help families while urging other well-meaning Nigerians to endeavour to give back to humanity. Some of the participants who spoke to newsmen during the presentation of the starter pack expressed joy nothing that they will immediately go back home to commence the business. A beneficiary, Mrs Jemima Barnabas who was trained in making household cleaning agents, said it was a privilege to be given the opportunity as she has been trained to handle her business better. Another beneficiary, Salamatu Abubakar explained she already started her business in baking while thanking the organisers for the impactful training.