Emma Okonji Infinix, on Wednesday in Lagos, launched its latest flagship device- the Note 30 series, at an event themed: ‘Take Charge 24/7’, where it demonstrated its dedication to its fans by inviting over 100 brand faithfuls, who were treated to a sensational performance by their brand ambassador and Nigeria’s top artist, Davido. During the launch event, guests had the opportunity to experience the various Note 30 variants, test the cameras, take selfies, and explore the all-round fast charging features. They interacted with representatives, asking questions and gaining insights into the device.  Speaking at the launch, the Co-Founder and Infinix Global Head, Mr. Benjamin Jiang, said: “The Note 30 Series is designed with cutting-edge all-round FastCharge technology that supports multiple charging methods, including wired fast charging, wireless charging, reverse charging, bypass charging, PD 3.0 protocol, intelligent charging, and safe charging across multiple dimensions.”  Giving details of its features, the Marketing Manager, Infinix Nigeria, Mr. Opeyemi Adewunmi, said the bypass charging was designed to supply power directly to the motherboard without going through the battery, thus effectively reducing the phone’s temperature and extending battery life. According to him, the reverse charging function makes it both a mobile phone and a charger for other electronic devices. It can charge your smartwatch, Bluetooth earbuds, or even an iPhone. The device also supports intelligent night charging and works with industry-standard protocols like USB Power Delivery 3.0, Adewunmi said.   Besides lightning-fast charging speeds, the Note 30 series has significantly improved its photography and video capabilities, powerful processors, super signal technology, the latest Android operating system, and large storage. Infinix also obtained a Hi-Res professional certification and partnered with JBL to provide a remarkable audio experience for the device. The Note 30 series also supports wireless charging, making charging the devices in the car, office, or at bedside easy and convenient. The Note 30 series comprises multiple models: the Note 30, Note 30 Pro, Note 30 5G, and Note 30 VIP. “With a starting price of N120,900, customers can purchase any of the Note 30 series at authorised Infinix retail outlets across Nigeria. Customers who can’t afford to pay for the device at once, can also purchase it with zero per cent interest and a 30 per cent down payment from Easybuy,” Adewunmi said. Infinix also announced the upcoming release of the Infinix Smart watch at the event.