Omolabake Fasogbon When it comes to cooking, seasoning cubes are a real delight, they are an integral part of any cuisine. Not only do they add taste and aroma to your variety of meals, but also create a delicious flavour profile to dishes making them a staple in any kitchen. Amongst the array of seasoning cubes in the market, very few have stood apart like Terra Seasoning Cube. It gained a reputation for its superior quality and unique taste with its combination of natural ingredients, exciting flavours, and versatility. It is the perfect seasoning to elevate the taste of your dishes and transform your meal into a delicious and flavourful masterpiece. Terra Seasoning Cubes commitment to quality and taste has earned it a loyal customer base in Nigeria. Most caterers and homemakers have committed to using Terra seasoning Cubes due to its unique blend of spices and herbs that allows them to create delicious and flavourful dishes. The brand’s dedication to quality has earned it several awards, including winning the Outstanding Seasoning Cube Brand of the Year in 2022. A retailer in Mushin market, Amos Store expressed her delight with the brand. According to her “Terra has taken over from other seasoning cubes, most of my customers use to buy three different types of seasonings which they combine to achieve their desired taste. But since the introduction of Terra Seasoning Cubes, my customers no longer combine seasonings.  The rate at which they buy Terra is amazing and the feedback has been great.  I dare not run out of stock”. She said smiling. Deepanjan Roy, Group Executive Director – TGI says the success of the products is a result of the company’s resolve to put the interests of its consumers first by seeking ways to continually excite them with products that add value to their lives. “At TGI Group, we understand the importance of superior value to our customers. That is why we have continued to invest in research and innovation to create a seasoning cube that stands out with a distinctive taste, flavour and aroma like Terra Seasoning Cubes,” he said For Probal Bhattacharya, Chief Marketing Officer, TGI Group, the company will continue to maintain the standards that have positioned Terra Seasoning Cubes as the fastest-growing seasoning in the Nigerian market. “I would say quality and value are, primarily, the essential components for success with consumers. Our range of Terra Seasoning Cubes resonates with our consumers because of both the quality & consistency it delivers and the value it adds to everyday cooking,” he said.