Folalumi Alaran in Abuja WaterAid Nigeria, a branch of the international non-profit organization WaterAid, has revealed its comprehensive 5-year Strategy Plan aimed at improving access to clean water, sanitation facilities, and promoting hygiene practices for a significant number of 17 million individuals throughout the country. The Country Director of WaterAid Nigeria, Ms. Evelyn Mere, made this announcement during the launch of the WaterAid Nigeria Country Programme 5-year Strategy for the period 2023-2028 in Abuja. Ms. Mere said that recently at the global level, WaterAid has launched a 10-year strategy which is to see that in Nigeria and other parts of the world, the organization reaches out to more than 400 million people with sustainable, safe water, sanitation and hygiene as well as ensuring increased annual financing for water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) in low and middle-income counties to the tune of $15 billion. She said WaterAid in the past 27 years has been working to ensure that everyone everywhere has access to clean water, decent toilets and good hygiene and also through the approaches of system strengthening, partnerships and empowerment addressed WASH challenges among the poor and the vulnerable. “ The strategy we are about to launch sets out a blueprint for maximizing emerging opportunities through systemic change and accelerating impact over the next five years. It was co-created through an inclusive and participatory process. It involved our numerous partners and other sector stakeholders at the federal level. “ Through a process which included a consultative meeting, an Aims Selection Workshop and a Programme Design Workshop, stakeholders worked with us to select two of the global aims: to achieve universal, sustainable and safe services in focused geographic areas to influence wider change and to strengthen the resilience of WASH to climate change. “ We have invited you today to launch a strategy you were part of developing. In doing this, we are further urging you to join us as we commence the journey of implementation. You are indispensable co-travellers in our quest to reach 10 million people directly through our interventions with basic WASH services and behaviors and influence improved basic WASH access for 17 million more people.” Speaking on the initiative, the Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, said Nigeria plays a crucial role in achieving the global Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) targets under Sustainable Development Goal 6 (SDG 6). The minister emphasized that Nigeria’s progress or lack thereof in the WASH sector would have a significant impact at both regional and global levels. Adamu said, “ To address the challenges in the WASH sector, the Nigerian government has undertaken several initiatives. These include the development of a National WASH Policy, for which a multi-stakeholder oversight committee has been established. Additionally, Memoranda of Understanding have been signed to initiate the SchoolWASH, HealthWASH, and YouthWASH Programs in collaboration with relevant ministries. “ These initiatives demonstrate the strong political will of the Federal Government in improving Nigeria’s WASH indicators and accelerating access to sustainable WASH services. The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has consistently implemented policies and programs to bridge sector gaps and enhance access to WASH services. This commitment aims to showcase the government’s prioritization of WASH and improve access to services.” The minister further stated that the strategy implemented would strive for universal, sustainable, and safe access to water, sanitation, and hygiene. It also aims to promote resilience to climate change within the WASH sector. These initiatives are intended to serve as a legacy for the next administration, with the hope that they will be sustained to further advance the WASH sector in Nigeria.