by Vanessa Obioha The world still mourns the death of the rock ‘n’ roll powerhouse Tina Turner who passed on Wednesday, May 24 in Switzerland. Turner who would have been 84 on November 26 was said to have died of natural causes. Revered as the Queen of Rock ‘n’ Roll, Turner left behind a legacy that will remain unmatched. Born Anna Mae Bullock, Turner was many things to different people. She was a beacon of hope to those who suffered marital abuse having survived one with her first husband Ike. Turner was 17 when she met Ike. She had come to watch his band Kings of Rhythm perform and struck up a relationship with him. Realising her star wattage, Ike made her his lead singer. He gave her the moniker ‘Tina Turner’ which she would eventually be known as for the rest of her life. His band’s first studio recording with her netted $25,000. Turner who suffered rejection as a child saw in Ike an oasis of peace when they got married in 1962. But that was not to be as she suffered abuse in his hands. From hitting her while she was pregnant, and forcing her to watch a live sex show in a brothel to other inhumane acts, Turner lived through hell in his hands. By 1976, she found the inner strength to walk away from the marriage. Her dignity and music career were in tatters at the time. Notwithstanding, Turner took the pain and refused to stay down. She walked away with nothing but a white, bloodstained Yves Saint Laurent pantsuit, two Jaguars, 36 cents, a gasoline card and her last name. “When I left, I was living a life of death,” she told People in 1981. “I didn’t exist. I didn’t fear him killing me when I left, because I was already dead. When I walked out, I didn’t look back.” She reinvented herself and became the celebrated survivor who many women drew inspiration from. “How do we say farewell to a woman who owned her pain and trauma and used it as a means to help change the world?” asked the actress Angela Bassett who portrayed Turner in the 1993 movie “What’s Love Got to Do With It.’ “Through her courage in telling her story, her commitment to stay the course in her life, no matter the sacrifice, and her determination to carve out a space in rock and roll for herself and for others who look like her, Tina Turner showed others who lived in fear what a beautiful future filled with love, compassion, and freedom should look like.” “As a woman, she gave you lots of strength. And I’m sure she’s encouraged so many young people, but she gave me lots of strength sometimes, and I gave her lots of strength, too. I think we were perfect friends for each other, truthfully,” said the singer Cher in an interview about her friend. To young black female artists, Turner was the epitome of power and passion as captured by Beyoncé in her tribute. She performed Turner’s ‘Proud Mary’ with her at the 2008 Grammys. “You are strength and resilience. You are the epitome of power and passion. We are all so fortunate to have witnessed your kindness and beautiful spirit that will forever remain. Thank you for all you have done.” When Turner started her solo career and decided to settle for rock ‘n’ roll, the genre was seen as a white music genre and therefore deprived Turner of the deserved fame in the United States. Being black did not help matters as many doors were shut to her. When Capitol Music refused to re-sign her, the late David Bowie stood by her until the record label reconsidered her. However, this didn’t stop the success of Turner. She would enjoy superstardom outside of America following her first solo album ‘Private Dancer’ released in 1984. Perhaps, this explained why she and her husband, the German music executive Erwin Bach relocated to Switzerland. They bought an estate in the European country less than two years ago worth $116 million. The 1984 album boasts the popular hit ‘What’s Love Got to Do With It’ which won three awards, for Record of the Year, song of the Year and best female pop vocal performance, and ‘Better Be Good To Me’ which won for best female rock vocal performance at the 1985 Grammy Awards. Turner won eight Grammys during her lifetime and sold 200 million copies of her albums. Beyond her music, Turner was a fashion icon. Her glittering sequined gowns made her a magnetic image on stage each time she grabbed the mic. The fashion designer Bob Mackie who designed her clothes during the early days of her  solo career told New York Times that the cardinal rule of dressing Turner was “You couldn’t cover anything up.” Her legs were too beautiful to cover up, according to him. Turner’s clothes ranged from shimmering gowns with plunging necklines and fringes that showcased her toned legs to leather bustiers and miniskirts, and heels of course. Turner’s reinvention with her fashion spoke volumes of her resilience to claim her place in the pantheon of music stars. It is one message that is clearly understood by the artist Janelle Monae who also makes bold statements about her identity with her fashion. She acknowledged this part of Turner in her tribute. “Tina. I owe you so much,” she began. “You are the true epitome of a rockstar that gave your all this lifetime. You inspire me to give mine. You taught us lessons and what true transformative power through honesty and vulnerability looks like.” Turner is remembered for her ability to rock a crowd with her vocals and frenetic dance moves. Her raspy voice had a certain magic that pulled people to her, making them scream in excitement and admiration. “She was truly an enormously talented performer and singer,” wrote Mick Jagger of Rolling Stones on Instagram. “She was inspiring, warm, funny and generous. She helped me so much when I was young and I will never forget her.” Jagger helped introduce Turner’s music to white audiences.  Her electrifying stage presence became an inspiration to artists who wanted to leave an indelible trail with their performances. Ciara, who falls under this category, wrote a loving tribute to her on Twitter “Heaven has gained an angel. Rest in Paradise Tina Turner. Thank you for the inspiration you gave us all.” Turner was also loved on-screen, taking roles in movies such as ‘Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome,’ and ‘Tommy.’ Turner’s recognition included being inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame first in 1991 with her ex Ike, and then in 2021 as a solo artist. She also received a Grammy lifetime achievement award in 2018.