The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) has announced the appointment of Babatunde Lasaki as its new General Manager, Corporate Communications and Strategy.This followed the retirement of Godwin Idemudia, who previously served in the position.In an official statement, the utility company thanked Idemudia for his service and wished him well on his retirement. “We are proud of the work that Mr. Idemudia did at EKEDC and remain grateful for his long and impactful service. The foundation he laid will remain his enduring legacy even as those inspired by him continue to work for a better department and company,” the statement read. Prior to his appointment, Lasaki was the company’s Assistant General Manager, Corporate Communications and Strategy. According to the statement, Lasaki comes to the role with a rich educational background in media and communications, and far-reaching experience in media, communications, brand management and strategy. “Lasaki holds a BA, Communication and Language Arts from University of Ibadan, an MBA, Marketing Management from Lagos State University, and an MSc, Media and Communication from Pan-Atlantic University,” the statement added. “He has also earned certificates from reputed local and international institutions, including Strategies for Optimising Corporate Communication Skills from of School of Media and Communication (SMC), Pan-Atlantic University, Lagos; Competitive Intelligence and Customer Satisfaction from Lagos Business School (LBS), Lagos; Strategic Communication and Crisis Management, from Hundfold Global, Johannesburg; Crisis Management for PR Managers in Financial Sector, at PRWeek, London; Strategic Communication and Stakeholders Engagement from Int.l School Of Communication, Dubai; Advanced Crisis Management Strategy from PRSA, Dallas, Texas. USA, and Advanced Diploma in Strategic Brand Management from London School of Business and Finance”, the statement added. The new General Manager enjoys membership in several professional associations including, Nigeria Institute of Public Relations, (NIPR); National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN); Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM), and African Public Relations Association (APRA). Prior to joining EKEDC in 2019, Babatunde Lasaki had worked with First Bank of Nigeria Limited where he served as the Head, Media, and External Communications. EKEDC expressed confidence that Lasaki’s reign would help accelerate the company’s public engagement objectives, given his experience as an “adroit communications strategist and media practitioner.” “We are confident that with his emergence, the company’s strategic engagement with the public will witness new levels of success and impact, helping to strengthen EKEDC’s position as an industry leader and the preferred choice of all stakeholders.”, the statement added.