A former President, Nigerian Institute of Architects, Chief Charles Majoroh has stated that Caleb University Imota, Lagos, is fast becoming a reference point in the area of architecture in the country. Majoroh, also a former President, Africa Union of Architects, said this at the just concluded Lagos Architects Forum tagged Lagos 14.0, with the theme ‘Lagos: An Evolving Organism.’ A statement by the institution’s Deputy Director, Public Relations, Protocol and Marketing, Prof. Elvis Otobo, quoted Majoroh as saying that the performance of the students at major architecture based conferences, competitions and activities is a clear testimony that the institution is a force to reckon with in architecture, not only in Nigeria, but in Africa. “I wish to state that architectural students from the College of Environmental Sciences and Management, of this university have a very bright future, given the kind of teaching and learning they are exposed to. “I am also proud of one of my staff members, who is also a graduate of this university of repute,” he said. The former president also commended the Lagos chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Architects for its innovations and for leading the pack and especially for hosting the  architects forum for the past 14 years. The Head, Department of Architecture, Caleb University, Prof. Oladipo Dare-Abel, who was one of the discussants at the forum, said that the university sent the highest student delegation to the forum this year, in line with its policy to expose students to best practices in architecture.   The student delegation was led by a team of staff from the College of Environmental Sciences and Management, which included the Dean, Prof. Oluwole Alagbe. Dare-Abel made insightful discussions on sustainability and climate change and the effects on the development of Lagos State.   He told participants about focused areas of research at his department, which he listed as smart city strategies, zoning and development compliance, and passive design. Others are, sustainable building materials, building information modelling (BIM), waste management, environmental protection and conservation of heritage buildings and sites. Victoria Ogunleye, a 400-level student of the institution who was among the student delegation to the forum, said she learnt the importance of sustainability in designs and the need to do more research on building materials before they are recommended for use in constructions.