Sunday Aborisade in Abuja An aspirant for the position of the 10th Senate Presidency, Senator Osita Izunaso, has said it was his turn to become the President of the Senate based on his commitment and the sacrifices he had made for the All Progressives Congress (APC). Izunaso, according to a statement by his Media Office, stated this in Abuja in an interview with journalists shortly after the Interdenominational service held at the Ecumenical Centre, Abuja. He declared that for justice, fairness and equity, the new President of Nigeria, Bola Tinubu, and the leadership of the APC should consider service and sacrifice to the party in deciding who to support for the position of senate president. He said he was more qualified and suitable for the position than all the other contenders in terms of competence, experience, education, knowledge, integrity, loyalty and commitment to the party, and as such, the APC should compensate his sacrifice, dedication and loyalty to the party by supporting him for the position. Izunaso explained that he yielded his time, energy and all in him together with the likes of elder statesman, Chief Bisi Akande and the current Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, to build the party from the scratch. The aspirant also said he served as the National Organising Secretary for five years without any blemish maintaining that it would be grossly unfair and unjust for the leadership of the party to deny him the senate presidency when he said he was the best among the contestants. “Beyond building and sacrificing for the party, I went through hell during the campaign for the presidential election. Some key figures in my  local government and senatorial district were cruelly slaughtered just because they were supporting and urging people to vote for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “I am a founding member of APC, we travelled to Lagos every weekend for good six months during the formation stages, to coin the name and get it right, we designed the logo, bringing together components of other parties making up the proposed APC, then before going for registration in the Corporate Affairs Commission.  “Governor Fashola is alive today, he knows all I am saying because he was part of the whole thing from day one. We conducted 36 governorship primaries, there was not a single litigation. Why? Because we did the right thing. You will agree with me that, that is what it means to show capacity. You know we battled a sitting President, therefore, we needed to do everything right to wrestle power from them.”