The May edition of the monthly literary series CORA Book Trek is set to hold on Wednesday, May 31 at Roving Heights Bookstore in Landmark Place, Water Corporation Drive, Oniru, Victoria Island. The event, which is a book review session, will feature Uche Nwokedi’s debut memoir, ‘A Shred of Fear.’ Nwokedi will be reading from his book, A Shred of Fear alongside friends drawn from the culture community. The memoir is a childhood account of survival and hope through the trauma of war. Young Uche relives with humour some untold details of the war from the point of view of a child survivor. Aged seven when the war began, he and his family would spend the next three years as refugees in their own country. A Shred of Fear brings dramatic events vividly to life. More than a war story, this compelling narrative is a tale of courage through a dark period. The CORA BookTrek is a fortnightly author-audience interface, featuring readings, reviews and discussions of select books of searching historical and contemporary insight into the African condition. The objective is to deepen literary appreciation and audience engagement with the published text. The author who is a senior advocate of Nigeria  is a Principal Counsel at Uche Nwokedi & Co. He cut his teeth at Ashland Oil Company Nigeria as a Legal Officer and later proceeded to Rotimi Williams Chambers as Senior Counsel. With over 35 years of post-call legal experience, Uche has made his mark in International Commercial Arbitration and Commercial Law, with specialty in oil and gas industry transactions.  Before joining the Board of FirstBank, he was the Publisher & Editor-in-Chief of Nigerian Oil and Gas Cases, Chairman, Pound Road Media Limited, and Founder and Chairman, The Playhouse Initiative for Youth Development, a non -profit foundation exploring creativity for youth empowerment. A graduate of University of Lagos, he is a member of Chartered Institute of Arbitration and Maritime Arbitrators Association of Nigeria,  former member of the Executive Council of The Maritime Arbitrators Association of Nigeria. Aside from being a reputable lawyer, Nwokedi is also a playwright and producer. His play, ‘Kakadu the Musical, is one of the earliest world-class styled musicals of the 2000s and the first Nigerian musical to be staged in South Africa’s largest theatre hall in Johannesburg. He is the creator and producer of EVE, a weekly legal soap opera which ran for three seasons and is now rested. Earlier this year, CORA has hosted three authors to BookTreks including Vincent Maduka’s REEL LIFE: My Years Managing Public Service Television; Simon Kolawole’s Fellow Nigerians: It’s All Politics and Musikilu Mojeed’s The Letterman: Inside the ‘Secret’ Letters of former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo.