Adron Homes and Properties is fast becoming the company to beat in the real estate world. Driving this rapidly growing outfit is young and industrious Dr. Adetola Emmanuel-King, who has brought some finesse to the business of estate acquisition. When it comes to affordable real estate in Nigeria, Emmanuel-King has set a precedent that would take others in the sector to meet. His ingenuity and innovations have set him far apart from his contemporaries. His attention to detail,  in the collective opinions of those who are close to him, is the secret of his successful exploits and continued relevance in the nation’s real estate sector.  It was gathered that over 10 years ago, the Otun-Onigbagbo of Remoland came to the nation’s real estate sector with a bang! His coming then had caused a stir in the sector, as he delighted stakeholders with beautiful promises. His sole objective is to redefine luxury in the Nigerian real estate industry and he is gradually achieving his dreams.  He has grown to become one of Nigeria’s leading lights in the affordable real estate sector after building over 10,000 units of homes across the country, with several estates littered across the country. The brand is notable for its unique selling point, which is a flexible payment plan that gives customers the leverage to gradually build a home, most especially low-income earners.  The Estate Management and Development graduate from the University of Ibadan believes what is worth doing is worth doing well. More reason he has continued to stand out in the most saturated real estate sector, thriving excellently well and remaining a formidable force. Recently, Emmanuel-King suffered undeserved bad media from some unscrupulous elements who were hell-bent on soiling the brand’s reputation by posting unverified news and facts on social media. However, the brilliant businessman was unperturbed as he understands that it is only a tree loaded with ripe fruits that people throw stones at. A source disclosed that the bad media was a deliberate attempt to throw Adron Homes off balance by their archrivals and competitors in the real estate business who are afraid and feel threatened about their success over the years.