Tosin Clegg  Mike Dosunmu is a renowned and established Music Director, Vocal Coach, Singer Analyst, Instrumentalist, Music Entrepreneur as well as an Event Coordinator. He has been doing this professionally for almost two decades and thousands of Music Performers have been affected positively by him through added value—trainings and given directions. His passion is to always add value and be a channel of initiating growth and provide the right teachings, mentorship and guide that stimulates the highest standards of innovation, creativity and dynamism for every music professionals. Adding further to his desire to impact as many musical artistes as possible he shares, “I plan to create training sessions and events that is life transforming and that will never be forgotten in a very long time. My team and I are set to be a channel that will give birth to a lots of Positivities in humanity.” Asides from his training sessions he also organizes  Spurz, a Music Conference that covers Singers, Musicians, Instrumentalist,Music Directors, Music Producers and Music Entrepreneurs. It’s called SPUR added with Z which is all about prompting the people as well as encouraging individuals or folks of different signature under music to grow, improve, be well informed, well tutored, having the right information, having a direction, being professional and maximizing each moment with so much relevance at any level. The convener, Michael Rotimi Dosunmu further established that, “SPURZ is strictly all about exponential growth,advancement,giving direction,adding value and affecting lives positively. My aspiration has always been providing opportunities and guidance to prepare a Singer or a Music Performer for a Professional life in music through mentorship, internship, entrepreneurial experience and training as educators. Also Enriching Musicians, artists, composers,  writers, instrumentalists, Performers, Entertainers and more through workshops, Seminars, conferences as well as being a trusted source of inspiration and encouragement.”