Emma Okonji The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, has assured telecoms subscribers of quality service delivery that will continue to enhance their lifestyles and businesses. Danbatta gave the assurance in Lagos recently after he was honoured with the award of the ‘Most Outstanding Regulator of the Year 2022’ at the 2022 Champion Annual Awards, organised by Champion Newspapers, to unveil its heroes. Danbatta who dedicated the award to the Board of NCC and the entire management and staff of NCC, appreciated the immense support he enjoyed from the management and the Board of NCC over the past years. “NCC has achieved this feat because of the level of corporation from NCC staff. NCC will continue to ensure that telecoms subscribers continue to enjoy qualitative telecoms services to enhance their lifestyles and businesses,” Danbatta said. Fielding questions from journaliusts about the World Telecommunications and Information Society Day, Danbatta said NCC would identify with its agenda in order to ensure that no part of Nigeria is left without telecoms service delivery. Giving reasons for honouring Danbatta, the organisers said: “Danbatta has successfully spearheaded the attainment and surpassing of Nigeria’s national broadband target in 2018 and he is currently among those leading the charge for the realisation of the new national broadband target of 70 per cent by 2025, after the country achieved and surpassed its earlier national target of 30 per cent penetration in 2018. “As at October 2022, broadband penetration reached 48.49 per cent, indicating 93 million broadband connections, up from five percent in 2015. Through effective regulatory regime and various cutting-edge initiatives, Danbatta has strengthened the role of telecommunications sector as a major contributor to the country’s Gross Domestic Products (GDP) growth, and boosted telecoms investment inflows from $36 billion to over $70 billion since 2015, among others.” Other heroes that were unveiled alongside Danbatta, include: Afenifere Leader, Chief  Pa Ayo Adebanjo who was honoured with Champion Newspapers’ Lifetime Achievement award of the year 2022; Chairman and Executive Director of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Brig. Mohamed Buba Marwa who emerged Chairman Newspapers’ Man of the Year 2022. Also, the Governor of Osun State, Mr Ademola Adeleke emerged Governor of the Year 2022 for paying workers and pensioners in Osun State, the backlog of salaries owed,  among other achievements within 100 days in the office. The Lagos State Governor,  Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu was honoured as ‘Governor of the year for distinguishing himself as a service -oriented leader who is committed to creating and delivering lasting value to Lagosians.