*Okotie pleads for his pardon Wale Igbintade A Lagos Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting at Sabo-Yaba, yesterday, ordered the remand of afrobeat singer, Seun Kuti, for additional four days in police custody over alleged assault on a police officer on the Third Mainland Bridge, Lagos. Chief Magistrate, Mrs. Adeola Olatubosun, extended Kuti’s remand until May 22.The Chief Magistrate, Olatubosun’s order was sequel to motion ex-parte brought by the police seeking for an order of the court to remand the Defendant in police custody for four days at the State Criminal Investigation Department, (SCID), Yaba Lagos, to enable the police carry out further investigation.The team of prosecution counsel led by DCP, Simon Lough, Yetunde Cardoso, P.A. Egbunike, Umar Bello, Cyril Ajifor,  Mr. Moruf Animashaun, Ayodele Oladiran,  S.A Adebesin, Emmanuel Eze, V.I Ekperezie and Idowu Osungbure told court that they filed motion ex-parte supported by 12 paragraphs affidavit with one exhibits attached to it. Lough told court that the motion was supported with written address, stating that the 12 paragraphs affidavit was deposed to by one ACP Saheed Kassim, one of the Investigating Police Officer (IPO) attached to State Criminal Investigation Department, Yaba Lagos. The application was brought pursuant to Sections 264(1) (2),(3),(4) & (6) & 257 of Administration of Criminal Justice Law of Lagos State, 2021 (As Amended), Sections 4 & 10 of the Police Act, 2020 and Sections 6(6), 35(1)(C), (5) & (7)(9) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (As Amended).The Police lawyer submitted, “it is our humble submission that from the facts, nature and circumstance of this case, the applicant is entitle to the relief sought from this honourable court in the interest of justice, public order and morality.” Responding to prosecution team submission, Mr. Femi Akinyemi, counsel who held brief for Mr. Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika, prayed the court to stand down the matter.But Chief Magistrate Olatubosun refused the prayer of the defence counsel for stand down the matter, and therefore granted the application for extension of remand order. She therefore ordered that the defendant be further remanded in police custody for additional four days.Magistrate Olatubosun said the file should be duplicated to the DPP and subsequently adjourned to May 23, 2023.Meanwhile, former presidential candidate, Mr. Chris Okotie, has urged the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba, to have mercy on Seun Kuti over his case with the Police. In a press statement issued in Lagos yesterday, and signed by his media adviser, Ladi Ayodeji, Okotie made a case for amnesty for the embattled music star.Okotie’s message came in the wake of the court’s  extension of Seun’s detention by four days.The statement stated: “I would like to urge the IGP to demonstrate a paternal clemency towards Seun Kuti in his transgression against an authorised myrmidon of the law. “Anti-establishment is not acceptable under any guise, however, a humane superintendence is a mark of a great leadership.“The youth have been under tremendous pressure to establish a new Nigerian social order and Seun’s abrasive conduct is a tangent from that trajectory.“I plead earnestly with the IGP to temper justice with mercy and exculpate Seun of all charges. Femi and Seun Kuti are artistic souvenirs bestowed upon us by the legendary Fela Anikulapo-Kuti and we truly appreciate the creative artistry demonstrated in their musical genre. “Please find sufficient grace in your heart to anesthesize the gravity of this provocation.“May the blessing of the God of heaven be vouchsafed to you in the plenitude of His Grace.”