Priests and parishioners of St. Patrick’s Parish, Ohom Orba Catholic Community in Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State yesterday  celebrated a thanksgiving Mass in honour of their illustrious son, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for coming to a successful end of his eight years tenure as governor of Enugu State. The people, who highlighted the numerous remarkable achievements of Governor Ugwuanyi’s administration in all sectors of development in Enugu State especially its legacy projects in Orba, Udenu Local Government Area and Enugu North Senatorial District (Nsukka zone), unanimously conferred on Governor Ugwuanyi the title of “Ide Ka Ide of St. Patrick’s Parish, Ohom Orba” in recognition of his contributions to the church and humanity. Speaking during the thanksgiving Mass at St Patrick’s Parish, Ohom Orba, the parish priest, Rev. Fr. Dr. Evaristus Emeka Isife, told Governor Ugwuanyi that “the people of St. Parick’s Parish, Ohom Orba, are thanking God for your foresight and the opportunity He gave you to be the Governor of Enugu State for eight years.” Fr. Isife appreciated God’s magnanimity on Governor Ugwuanyi, even when he was in the House of Representatives. The cleric pointed out that Governor  Ugwuanyi has positively touched the lives of the parishioners of St. Patrick’s Parish, Ohom Orba in particular and the people of the community in general through the numerous works that he did in the state in spite of the avalanche of challenges bordering on economy, limited resources, public health and security confronting the country, stressing that they are grateful to God and the governor. “We also want to use this opportunity to thank you because while you were doing those works we wanted to voice them out, but you asked us not to mention them, but it is time for us to mention them and celebrate you. “So we are here to mention what you have done for us which did not just start today but while you were in the House of Representatives. “So, the people that have gathered here have come to thank God for what He has done in your life. So, I call on all the priests in the house to join hands in thanking God on behalf of our brother, Rt. Hon. Dr. Lawrence Ifeanyichukwu Ugwuanyi,” the cleric said.  In a welcome address by St. Patrick’s Parish, Ohom Orba, presented by the Secretary of the Parish Council, Mr. Christopher Osita Ugwuona, the Catholic Community revealed the immense contributions of Governor Ugwuanyi towards the completion and dedication of the church in 2012 as a federal lawmaker as well as his renovation of the church in 2022 “to a world class standard with asphalt road and street lights around the church premises which made St. Patrick’s Ohom Orba to become a pilgrimage centre to the people of Nsukka Diocese and beyond.” The church hailed the governor for the legacy projects his administration executed in the state which have impacted the lives of the citizens positively. Governor Ugwuanyi’s people listed the projects to include “dualisation of Opi-Nsukka road with street and traffic lights; construction of new classroom blocks and renovation of dilapidated ones in most primary schools in Enugu State; construction of Agu-Orba road, Orba-Imilike-Obollo Afor-Amalla road, Imilike Ani-Ezimo Uno-Ezimo Agu road; construction of ring roads within Ohom Isiamanato; rehabilitation of Opi-Makurdi federal road; construction and equipping of Type-3 Hospital, Amalla Orba (and in 9 other locations across the state); and the Almighty State University of Medical and Applied Sciences (SUMAS) Igbo-Eno, Enugu State, to mention but a few of such projects.  The St. Patrick’s Parish, Ohom Orba Catholic Community said that they were exceedingly grateful to God for elevating their illustrious son to the exalted position of Governor of Enugu State, and for guiding and protecting him as well as giving him the wisdom to steer the ship of the state for the past eight years without hitches, saying: “May the Almighty God grant you more wisdom and courage as you continue to serve God and humanity with all your heart, mind and strength to the glory of God, amen.” The thanksgiving Mass, which was attended by Governor Ugwuanyi was celebrated by the Rev. Msgr. Bernard Ik. Ngwoke, the Parish Priest of St. Jacob’s Parish, Orba and the Dean of Orba Deanery, Rev. Fr. John Chibueze Ushi, and a host of other priest who were concelebrating.  In their separate goodwill messages, the traditional ruler of Ohom Orba Autonomous Community, HRH Igwe Evaristus Uchenna Onah, the President General of the Town Union, Cyril Ik. Odoh, and the Chairman of the Occasion, Dr. Patrick E. Eze endorsed the decision of the Catholic faithful to celebrate and honour Governor Ugwuanyi, commending the governor for his landmark achievements in the state and Nsukka zone in particular in keeping with promises in his inaugural address. The governor’s kinsmen and kinswomen, some politicians, supporters and well-wishers including the State Chairman of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) and Chairman of Udenu LGA, Hon. Solomon Onah and the Member-elect for Igbo-Eze North II Constituency, Hon. Clifford Obe were present at the event.