Chiemelie Ezeobi reports that the recently held second quarterly conference of the Explosive Ordnance Disposal – Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear, not just provided an avenue to deliberate and identify operational gaps and challenges of the command in order to create proactive measures in tackling such emerging threats, but also assess its performance during the just concluded general elections and expectations for the forthcoming inauguration  The Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) – Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) recently held its second quarterly conference for the year.   Held at EOD-CBRN conference hall in Ikeja with the DCP EOD-CBRN, DCP Akoh Benedict Gabriel; ACP EOD- CBRN, ACP Umar Sokoto Abubakar; base and unit commanders, as well as other senior officers in attendance, the EOD-CBRN Commissioner of Police, CP Zannah Shettima, said it  was an avenue to deliberate and identify operational gaps and challenges of the command in order to create proactive measures in tackling emerging threats and proffer solutions to challenges of the command. Commending officers and men of the command on their efforts at curbing and curtailing the negative use of explosive/allied materials in the country, particularly in the last general elections, he said IGP Alkali Usman Baba also personally appreciates their efforts, dedication professionalism. Stressing that the command’s success in the last election can be attributed to the support and leadership of the Inspector General of Police who through his good office gave the command moral and material support in terms of equipment procurement and training programmes, he said these resulted to the enhancement of the professional competence of EOD- CBRN Officers and men. He said: “The theme for the last conference held on 26th January, 2023 was “Proactive and Strategic EOD-CBRN Security Coverage During the 2023 General Election”. At the conference, officers and men were charged to be determined as bomb technicians and Investigators to constantly review our existing operational approach as well as to be in consonant with crime fighting strategies and to be abreast with the standard of modern day policing. “It is gratifying and heartwarming to state that reports from different Departments, State Commands and formations disclosed that EOD- CBRN Officers and men performed very well before, during and after the general election. “I thank you all for your patriotism, commitment, professionalism, diligence and adequate deployment and coordination of the limited human and material resources for the election. “The operational measures put in place by officers and men of the EOD-CBRN Command to prevent, detect and neutralise any threats associated with Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear and Explosive (CBRNE) materials before, during and after the election should be sustained and even reinforced as we approach the upcoming inauguration.” Giving further account of achievements recorded within that period under review, he said: ” On 06/02/2023 at about 1330hrs personnel of EOD-CBRN Base 35 Abakaliki recovered three IEDs from IPOB camp at NigerCem, Nkalagu, Ishielu LGA, Ebonyi State, while on 08/02/2023 at about 1230hrs a smoke hand grenade was recovered by personnel of EOD-CBRN Unit MMIA at 7 Star Global Hanger LTD, at Murtala Muhammed Airport Ikeja – Lagos. “Also on 15/04/2023 at about 0645hrs personnel of EOD-CBRN Base 21 Warri recovered an improvised Incendiary/Explosive Device comprising 21kg of high explosive, one piece of electric detonator, 335feet of firing cable and 10 liters gallon containing suspected petroleum product at Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office, Warri-South LGA, Delta State.  “On 03/05/2023 at1530hrs personnel attached to Base 3 Enugu recovered and demolished an unexploded ordnance (Mortar) at Umuabi, Udi LGA, Enugu State.” Speaking on the theme of the conference, “Post-election Assessment and Operational Readiness for the Inauguration Ceremony” he said it was in preparation for the forthcoming inauguration exercise that will usher in a new administration. He said: ” Internal security remains a herculean task for security agencies to surmount. However, it is important to ensure smooth and crime free inaugural process especially now that Nigeria is faced with serious security challenges threatening her territorial integrity.  “This demands that all hands must be on deck. Personnel must remain resolute and unwavering in our commitment to fight against any form of criminality in the country, through continuous synergy with other security agencies to curtail this societal menace. “The EOD-CBRN Command has commence preparations for an inaugural ceremony free of explosive/allied materials, by putting in place a robust and elaborate security arrangement and crime prevention strategies to ensure that all the nooks and crannies of the Nation is free of Explosive, Radioactive, Chemical and other hazardous materials. “The command is making efforts to improve the capacity of her personnel by liaising with key Ministries Departments and Agencies, International Partners, Local and International NGOs to invest more in capacity building programmes in order to enhance the capability of its officers and men for effective service delivery.  ‘There is no gainsaying that EOD-CBRN personnel have been performing their statutory responsibility professionally and will do same during the inauguration ceremony across the federation. You are directed to strengthen your CBRNE detection and response standard operating procedure (SOP) to reduce response time and emplace mitigating strategies before, during and after the inauguration ceremony to deter, detect and neutralise any threats.” He further charged officers and men to  continually collaborate with sister Security agencies, Emergency responders, Logistics Companies, Regulatory bodies such as Nigerian Nuclear Regulatory Authority (NNRA), National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control(NAFDAC) Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, Technical support agencies like Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission (NAEC) and other relevant stakeholders towards ensuring that imauguration ceremonies across the states are not truncated by illegal application of CBRNE materials.