Hammed Shittu  in Ilorin A five-man gang suspected to be kidnappers on Tuesday evening killed one person and kidnapped 20  others including Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo the immediate younger brother of Chairman, Governing Council of Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti, Akogun, Iyiola Oyedepo. The incident according to THISDAY checks happened at Ijara-Isin/Isanlu Isin Road  in Isin local Government Area of Kwara State about  6.00pm. Also, another bus conveying passengers from Ekiti state along that route was  intercepted and all the passengers numbering 20   taken away into the thick bush. THISDAY investigations revealed that, Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo and two others were in the car along Ijara-Isin/Isanlu Isin Road when the  kidnappers, wielding guns,  intercepted them. It was at this point that , the occupants in the car were asked to come down and taken inside the thick forest. It was gathered that, an innocent motorcyclist who was  riding towards the scene of the incident at the time was instantly shot dead. The  source gave the name of the death person as Adeyemi of Pamo Isin. Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo, who is also a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara confirmed the incident in an  interview with journalists in Ilorin yesterday. He said his immediate younger brother was on errand for burial ceremony of their mother which will take place in their hometown Isanlu Isin this Saturday when he was kidnapped with two others. He said: “Yes, one of the kidnapped victims is my immediate younger brother. He was on errand with others for the burial ceremony of our mother this Saturday when he was kidnapped with others. When asked whether the suspected kidnappers have reached out to the family for ransom payment, he said no. “By the grace of God we will continue with the burial and we believe that by the grace of God, he will be released alive,” he stressed. When contacted, Spokesman  of the state Police Command, Mr. Ajayi Okasanmi confirmed the incident.  “One person was killed and three others still missing according to the information available. Police men have been drafted into the thick bush to comb it and rescue the kidnapped victims alive and  also arrest the kidnappers.”