“Seest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.”- Proverbs 22:29. These words of wisdom from the holy book capture the life of the young and suave monarch of Oworonshoki kingdom in Lagos State, His Royal Majesty, Oba Babatunde Saliu. The highly cerebral and cosmopolitan monarch is celebrating the first anniversary of his ascension on the throne of his fathers. Saliu is without doubt an embodiment of numerous virtues which include diligence, excellence, integrity and many more. The eminently qualified monarch was the popular choice of the kingmakers and elders of Oworonshoki town and his selection was celebrated by all and sundry. For the monarch and the entire people of Oworonshoki kingdom and its environs, the anniversary is expected to be as grandiose as possible. Indeed, the ceremony is being planned to surpass the coronation ceremony one year ago. Expectedly, nothing is being left to chance as the programmes for the one-year anniversary are rolled out. Among the several programmes lined up for the big day is a football tournament, which according to Saliu, was designed to discover new talents for the national football teams from Oworonshoki. That his workaholic disposition has taken him to places where kings wine and queens dine cannot be contested. His very rich resume speaks volumes about the person of the handsome monarch. The businessman, philanthropist, philosopher and politician turned monarch is indeed a blessed man. Before he ascended the throne, Saliu, who was raised in Lagos, was the immediate-past vice chairman of Kosofe Local Government Area. Before then, he served as Special Assistant to the former governor of Lagos, Babatunde Fashola. He was also a senior special assistant on land matters to Governor Sanwo-Olu. And perhaps the big one, Saliu was a Personal Assistant to the President-elect, Bola Tinubu. His popular choice as the Oba of his homeland is a testament to the growing influence and resultant affluence of this modern-day monarch. A force to be reckoned with in Nigeria’s economic sector, his entrepreneurial exploits readily qualifies him as one of the most audacious businessmen Nigeria can boast of. This exceptional achiever grabbed life by the lapel early in life and got transformed into an enviable status filled with great accomplishments. The well-educated monarch is a holder of two Bachelor’s degrees in Philosophy and Business Administration, as well as two Master’s degrees in Philosophy and Public and International Affairs. Since he ascended the throne of his ancestors in 2021, Saliu has hit the ground running with several well-planned programmes to launch Oworonshoki into national reckoning. And sure enough, in achieving this grand dream, he is pulling all strings in both political and business