*Say due process breached, AGF usurped role of director of administration James Emejo in Abuja Some aggrieved directors and deputy directors in the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (OAGF) have petitioned the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed over alleged irregularities in their recent posting by the acting Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) Mr. Sylva Okolieaboh. The protest came against the backdrop of a memo dated May 8, 2023, and signed by Okolieaboh communicating the posting of 12 directors from the treasury house to other ministries and parastatals. The memo titled, “Posting of Directors and Deputy Director of Finance and Accounts SGL 17/16 Under the Pool of Office of the Accountant General of the Federation,” was addressed to the Permanent Secretaries in the ministries of Education, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development, Niger Delta Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Police Affairs, Finance, Budget and National Planning, Police, Nigeria Customs Service, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, North East Development Commission, Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, and the Executive Secretary, Nigeria Police Trust Fund. According to the memo, obtained by THISDAY, the postings which took immediate effect, affected 10 directors and two deputy directors who were assigned responsibilities in other ministries.Okolieaboh said, “All officers are reminded that failure to comply with this posting instruction shall be treated in accordance with the provision of Public Service Rule (PSR). “Accordingly, affected officers are advised to submit Assumption of Duty Certificate to the undersigned on or before May 22, 2023.”However, the aggrieved officers in a petition to the AGF and the Minister of Finance, dated May 17, 2023, faulted the postings and accused Okolieaboh of scandal in “posting of directors of accounts and deputy directors of his office to some ministries and MDAs.” They accused the AGF of usurping the role of the Director of Administration who has the responsibility to affect such postings, adding that the development was suspicious of a fowl-play and cover-up by the former, and given that he is to retire in the next couple of days. The petitioners said, “Mr. Sylva who is about to retire on May 26, 2023, was deeply involved in a lopsided posting of staff of the OAGF believed to be his cronies and associates who may be sending returns to him while he exited the Civil Service of the Federation from next week. “What he did was actually unimaginable by sidelining other senior directors especially the Director of Administration of the OAGF who has statutory duties and is in charge of general administrative duties, staff promotions, discipline, and postings of staff to MDAs.” The protesting directors accused the AGF of “hijacking the duties of the Director of Administration and acted by himself where he personally posted the staff and signed the memo for the postings.” Continuing, they said, “Many staff of the OAGF had never ever witnessed such illegality and abused of due process where the AGF himself will sign the memo for the postings of staff while Director of Administration is available in the office.” They also accused the AGF of collecting huge sums of monies from staff with a “promise to post them to some juicy MDAs”. “But when he discovered that other senior management staff of the OAGF especially the Director of Administration will not cooperate with him to perpetuate the illegality he later sidelined them and posted the affected staff by himself. “About 12 staff were on the posting list in a memo reference no. TRO/865/VOL.XVI.221 he personally signed dated 8th of May, 2023 without observance of the due process and public service Rules. “Some staff of the OAGF threatened to petition the anti-corruption agencies if such grave anomalies were not immediately reversed to avoid setting a bad precedent at a sensitive office of nation’s treasury.”