Government Day Science Secondary School Jalingo in Taraba State and General Murtala Mohammed College, Yola, in Adamawa State, won in the boys’ and girls’ categories, respectively at the first regional conference of the 23rd MILO Secondary Schools Basketball Championship. Nestlé Nigeria’s MILO Secondary School Basketball Championship has been promoting the value of grit for over 23 years, helping school children learn essential life skills such as resilience, persistence, stamina, cooperation, and self-belief. These values enable them to overcome challenges and achieve their goals in life. At the recently concluded Savannah Conference, Government Day Science Secondary School Jalingo, won in the girls’ category 19-13 against Government Secondary School, Numan, Adamawa State.  To win in the boys’ category, General Murtala Mohammed College Yola, defeated Dutse Model International College, Dutse, Jigawa State 39-24. Happy Sylvester from GDSSS Jalingo was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the tournament in the girls’ category. “I do not have words to say how I feel, but I am really, really excited. This is huge, and I never expected it, but with God all things are possible. I thank God, I thank MILO and I thank my teammates,” gushed an obviously excited Sylvester. The Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the tournament in the boys’ category is  Numan Dickson from GMMC Yola, won the MVP of the boys’ category.  Speaking on her achievement, Dickson said: “I am happy and extremely excited. Thanks, to my teammates and coaches. They made my dream come true. I always wanted to be MVP since I started playing basketball, so, I am happy.” Nestlé continues to lead grassroots sports development in Nigeria through its MILO Basketball Championship, contributing to the growth of many players in the Nigerian national teams, and notable clubs across the world today. Category Manager for Beverages, Nestlé Nigeria, Mr. Olutayo Olatunji, reiterated Nestle’s commitment to developing talents, promoting healthier lifestyles, and instilling values for success in life through sports. “MILO, firmly believes that through participation in sports, children learn enduring values to help them achieve sustainable success in life,” he said.