Kuni Tyessi in Abuja The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has listed key areas of focus to the incoming administration of Bola Ahmed Tinubu and with emphasis on federal character. The Christian body specifically noted that the in-coming administration must make good use of faith leaders to seek genuine peace that would be all-inclusive. President of CAN, Arch Bishop Daniel Okoh, who gave the advice in Abuja yesterday, during a Leaders’ Summit organised by Gideon and Funmi Para-Mallam Foundation, emphasised that Tinubu must be assertive in tackling ethnic and religious identity, adding that Nigerians should be able to gain access to economic and socio-political benefits in any part of the country, where they chose to reside. Okoh said the country was blessed with a cohort of religious and community leaders, who were peace advocates and the in-coming administration must utilise the goodwill of faith leaders to seek genuine peace that would be all-inclusive. “It must be assertive in addressing the issues of ethnic and religious identity. Nigerians should be able to lay claim and gain access to economic and socio-political benefits in any part of the country where they chose to reside. “Addressing the ‘indigeneity’ clause and according full residency rights to Nigerians will be a right step in the right direction. The Federal Character Principle should be respected; and total right to freedom of belief or worship should be granted unhindered to citizens to freely subscribe to any religion of their choice. “Abduction, illegal marriage and forceful conversion of persons to a faith against their wish is archaic, reprehensible and condemnable all over the modern world and should not be allowed to thrive here. This anti-social practice, which has gained traction especially in Northern Nigeria should be discouraged and condemned by well-meaning citizens and constituted authorities alike. “This kind of behavior, where condoned, is a recipe for anarchy and will ultimately, render all the peacebuilding efforts null and void. Accountable Governance – it is not a secret that Nigeria lacks quality leadership that is yet to transform the abundant economic wealth available in the land towards sustainable development.” President of the Foundation, Gideon Para-Mallam, explained that the summit was organised to address the hostile Christian environment because of the atrocities of Boko Haram and other evil groups.