The Nigerian Bar Association, Section on Business Law (NBA-SBL) has announced the leaders of the Conference Planning Committee of its upcoming 17th Annual International Business Law Conference, themed “The Nigerian Business Landscape: Priorities for Law, Policy and Regulation”. Executive Committee Ayoyinka Olajide-Awosedo – Chair Ose Okpeku – Vice Chair Temi Olowu – Secretary The Sub-Committee Chairs for the NBA-SBL Conference 2023  Fundraising Sub-Committee • Sola Dosumu (Chair) • Fatima Kere-Ahmed  (Co-Chair) •Osahon Uhuangho  (Vice Chair) 2.Program & Content Sub-Committee: • Oludare Senbore (Chair) • Oludamola Awobokun (Vice Chair) 3. Media & Publicity Sub-Committee: • Efeomo Olotu (Chair) • Dayo Adu (Vice Chair) 4. Technology Sub-Committee: • Moses Faye (Chair) • Seun Timi-Koleolu (Co-Chair) 5 Venue & Accommodation Sub-Committee: • Perenami Momodu (Chair) • Kofoworola C. Toriola (Vice Chair) 6. Logistics and Entertainment Sub-Committee: • Johnson Amaechi (Chair) 7. Conference Sponsors Administrative Sub-Committee: • Christine Sijuwade (Chair) 8. Young Lawyer Sponsorship Sub-Committee: • Vicar Oguafor (Chair) 9. Exhibitions Sub-Committee: • Ogoegbunam Okafor (Chair) 10. Regulatory Clinic Coordinators: • Marx Ikongbeh • Oladele Oladunjoye • Oluwatoyin Oladejo “We are thrilled to have such a talented and diverse group of leaders, to guide the sub-committees for this year’s Conference”, said Mrs Ayoyinka Olajide-Awosedo, Chair of the NBA-SBL Conference Planning Committee. “Their expertise and dedication to advancing the practice of Business Law in Nigeria, will ensure a successful and impactful event.” The 17th edition of the Annual International Business Law Conference is scheduled to hold over a three-day period, from Wednesday, July 5 to Friday, July 7, at the Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos.   #upjudicialsalaries “The Committee notes the need to review the existing package of benefits and allowances currently available to judicial officers, in recognition of the peculiar demands of the judicial office. The current official allowances are inadequate, in view of the status and work schedule of a judicial office.” – NBA Working Committee on Judicial Remuneration and Conditions of Service