Kayode Tokede   Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX), yesterday reiterated its commitment to supporting the enforcement of regulations that enhanced transparency in the capital market, urging  investors to comply with rules on disclosure of substantial holdings in listed companies. Recall a circular to the market recently in which NGX stated that lack of appropriate disclosures by investors was a breach of its rules and other extant market regulations. According to NGX, the act also impacted market transparency and fairness as it creates information asymmetry. This, according to experts, could hamper price discovery, regulatory oversight and the accuracy of public disclosures. The Divisional Head, Capital Markets, NGX, Mr. Jude Chiemeka noted that NGX is fully committed to maintaining the integrity and transparency of the Nigerian capital market. According to him, “We urge all investors to comply with our rules and regulations regarding the disclosure of substantial interests in listed companies.” He added that refusing to comply with these guidelines creates information asymmetry, distorts public information and market data, and undermines the confidence of investors in our market. He explained   that “The Exchange will continue to take necessary actions to ensure compliance and promote a level playing field for all market participants.” The circular reminded investors of Rule 17.13 of the Rulebook of the Exchange, Issuers’ Rules, 2015, titled “Disclosure of Changes in Beneficial Ownership of Shares” which requires every Issuer to notify NGX immediately; about any transaction that takes the beneficial ownership of its shares to five per cent  or more not later than 10 business days after such transaction. The circular also quoted the Rulebook’s section on free float requirements, Rule 2.2 which states, “Each Issuer shall incorporate in its half-year financial statement filed with NGX its shareholding pattern, and also indicate whether or not its free float is in compliance with NGX’s free float requirements for the Board on which it is listed.” Investors and all stakeholders are reminded to be guided by the provisions of the above NGX rules and circular.