·W’Bank, NGF hail Edo governor Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has reiterated the need for Nigerians to shun bitterness and other societal divisions and work together, irrespective of their differences, to create and promote an enabling environment for growth and societal advancement. The governor gave the charge in commemoration of the 2023 International Day of Living Together in Peace, with the theme, “United in differences and diversity.” The event marked every May 16 aims to encourage people from diverse backgrounds to live together harmoniously and respect and appreciate the differences that exist among individuals and communities, as well as emphasises the importance of dialogue, cooperation, and mutual understanding in building peaceful and inclusive societies. A statement yesterday, quoted Obaseki have said, “This year’s celebration presents yet another opportunity to celebrate the beauty and richness of our differences and diversity as a nation and people. We are blessed with a rich tapestry of cultures, languages, traditions, and beliefs, and must recognise that it is in this diversity that our strength lies. “Our collective differences must therefore be celebrated as a source of enlightenment and growth, rather than a cause for division. “If we must therefore live together and address the myriad of challenges confronting us a people, we must rise above prejudice, bitterness, discrimination, and all other forms of societal stereotypes, and work in unity to foster an inclusive and conducive environment that recognises the inherent worth and dignity of every person, regardless of their differences and backgrounds. It is only then that we can forge our paths to sustainable growth and development.” The governor added, “In Edo State, we have long understood the importance of embracing and harnessing our differences and have, as a government, implemented a series of policies and reforms to foster an environment where every citizen feels valued, respected, and included. “We recognise that it is through the integration of various perspectives that we can find innovative solutions to the challenges we face and unlock our true potential.” According to the United Nations, “Living together in peace is all about accepting differences and having the ability to listen to, recognise, respect and appreciate others, as well as living in a peaceful and united way.” Meanwhile, the World Bank, the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) and Ogun State Government have lauded the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, for running a transparent and accountable procurement system, implementing an e-procurement model that has redefined the acquisition process in the country. The Managing Director, Edo State Public Procurement Agency, Henry Idogun, stated this when he received a delegation from the Ogun State Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) who are in Edo State on a four-day study exchange. According to Idogun, “for delegates from other states and countries to continue understudying Edo is a proof of the transparency and commitment of the state governor to ensuring that good governance is delivered to the people.” Idogun noted, “The World Bank and Nigerian Governors’ Forum and other bodies have since last year maintained that we are the leading state in terms of the e-procurement implementation strategy and so most of the states and some countries have heard about that and have been coming to Edo to look at what we are doing and how we are doing it. “Their coming to Edo, for us, is an indication that there is something we are doing well and they have identified it as well. We feel happy about it because it’s good for our state and government.”