Ferdinand  Ekechukwu After shooting in several undisclosed locations, comedian and actor, Ayo Makun announced he has wrapped filming on ‘Merry Men 3’, his upcoming comedy film and is now set for the post-production stage. This followed a recent teaser released by the comic actor popularly known as AY. This week, the movie producer shared a series of photos from the yet-to-be-released film via his Instagram page. The photos captured scenes from the movie where Nadia Buari, the Ghanaian actress, tied the knot with Ramsey Nouah. The plush wedding ceremony was officiated by ace actor Sam Dede. “We are coming back with Merry Men 3….” AY wrote. Apart from a love affair and wedding with Ramsey Nouah and Nadia Buari as seen in the stills, not much details were given out except for the first-look images which shows faces like Ramsey Nouah, Williams Uchemba, Rosy Meurer and AY.  With additional cast like Buari and Dede, ‘Merry Men 3’ is expected to be another blockbuster. ‘Merry Men: The Real Yoruba Demons’ was first produced in 2018, starring Ramsey Nouah, AY, Damilola Adegbite, Folarin Falana, Jim Iyke, Uchemba Williams, and Richard Mofe-Damijo. The film tells the story of four Abuja’s most eligible and notorious bachelors. Their lives are wrapped in flamboyancy with their network and thriving businesses, fast cars, luxury homes, and the women in their lives in excess. With a mix of love, family and friendships, the ‘Merry Men’ struggle to keep it all together. However, ‘Merry Men 3’ is expected to continue the original story started in ‘Merry Men: The Real Yoruba Demons’ (2018) and ‘Merry Men 2: Another Mission’ (2020). The sequel reintroduced the merry men pitted against a gang of assassins who must help an indicted government official escape justice in exchange for their kidnapped loved ones. In the same year, ‘Merry Men’ was among the top five highest-earning cinema movies, grossing N230 million. ‘Merry Men 2’, the first sequel, was released later in 2020 and streamed on Netflix after the US streaming platform acquired rights to the movie. ‘Merry Men 3’ is expected to make a cinema hit based on AY’s track record at the Box Office.