Daniel Friday Okodi popularly also known as Danzor is a Seasoned Digital Marketing Expert and an influencer In the social media space. With over 100,000 combined followers on his social media pages, where he regularly shares his tastes in social media, digital marketing and tech has got his content go viral several times on these platforms. With his wealth of experience on the social media space and a desire to impact lives he has published several books to share his knowledge and further contribute his impact on a quality note. Shedding light on his books he noted that, “For me writing is very deep and it comes from a place of passion for what I love doing, you know; Personal experiences, I draw inspiration from my own life experiences, whether it’s overcoming challenges, exploring different cultures, or encountering unique individuals. These personal encounters often serve as a foundation for my storytelling. I also observe the world and the people around me. I find inspiration in observing the world around me, from the intricate details of nature to the complexities of human interactions. Paying attention to the small nuances and larger societal issues can spark ideas and themes for my book.” Asides from his creative part of writing, Daniel has spoken at platforms such as AfricaNXT, hosted a digital summit and has touched several lives with his books, his recently released book, Love and Branding is an eye opener for brands and individuals. Expressing further he mentions that, “I also get inspiration from Emotional connections with people, you know Emotions are a powerful source of inspiration. When I experience intense emotions such as love, loss, or joy, I often find that channeling those feelings into my writing can create compelling and relatable narratives. And finally I am inspired by the desire to shed light on social issues, challenge norms, and advocate for change. By incorporating important themes and exploring diverse perspectives, I hope to create thought-provoking narratives that resonate with readers.” Danzor– as he is fondly called – has over 8 years of experience in social media campaigns, brand management, PR, and digital strategies and has worked with big names companies like Google, FiberOne, Casham, MTN, and a host of others.