The Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) which brought together energy professionals from around the world recently concluded a successful edition. The event welcomed 31,000 participants and over 1,300 exhibiting companies. Hosted in Houston, Texas from 1 to 4 May 2023, the annual event offered a collective platform for stakeholders to discuss global energy demands, the offshore sector’s role in meeting critical energy requirements, and its importance in the energy transition. Participants had the opportunity to connect with top industry leaders, to learn about as well as showcase the latest innovations and technological advancements for the future of offshore energy while exploring cutting-edge technology for offshore drilling, exploration, production, and environmental protection. One of the distinguished participants at the 2023 edition was Dorman Long Engineering Limited, a leading Oilfield Equipment, Structural Steel, Marine Structures Engineering, and Fabrication Company in West Africa. Dorman Long, a leading member of the Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN), supported the national association by sponsoring PETAN’s program for the Nigerian Pavilion which was newly opened at this year’s event. The company, chaired by Dr. Timi Austen-Peters, was the proud sponsor of a networking golf session held on the final day to conclude the conference. The event was held at Quail Valley Golf Course and was open to all players. Golf enthusiasts took the opportunity to relax after a fulfilling week at the impact-filled conference where useful business connections and alliances were made. The golf session provided an opportunity for leisurely competition by offering exciting prizes and a presentation of prizes followed immediately after the game for the winners who proved their prowess on the field. The golf session also provided a brilliant opportunity for attendees to connect with themselves beyond the business-driven aspects of the program whilst engaging in physical activity in a relaxed environment. Dorman Long’s support for the session underscores its commitment to promoting well-being, socialization, and relationship-building in the industry. OTC is an important platform for the energy industry as the foremost event for the development of offshore resources by stimulating the exchange of ideas and opinions to advance scientific and technical knowledge. With its focus on innovation and sustainability, the conference serves as a platform for companies like Dorman Long Engineering to showcase their customer-driven solutions and engage with other stakeholders on emerging trends.