Rebecca Ejifoma  Beaconhill Smile Group, under the umbrella of Beaconhill Smile Foundation, sensitised communities in the Victoria Island area of Lagos state on the significance of better oral health against the menace of oral cancer in Nigeria and Africa.  The group executed this walk in partnership with Lakeshore Cancer Centre to mark this year’s International Oral Cancer Awareness Month in April. In his speech, the Beaconhill Smile Group’s Managing Director, Dr Oluwaseun Akinbobola, spoke on the importance of early detection of oral cancer. “Some of the major causes of oral cancer are alcohol and tobacco intake, poor dental hygiene, exposure to extreme sunlight, among others, all of which Nigerians are widely predisposed to from our social nature,” he warned. If the doctor detects the disease early, Akinbobola said, the chances of survival are much higher, around 90 per cent.  That is why Beaconhill Smile Foundation aims to increase awareness of the disease nationwide, including risk factors and warning signs. The dental practitioner further encouraged people to be proactive regarding their oral health. He encouraged them to be alert to any changes in their mouth and speak to a dentist or doctor as soon as they notice anything. While citing the latest WHO data, Akinbobola decried that oral cancer in Nigeria has reached about 2,238 or 0.15 per cent of the total annual deaths in the country.  “This silent killer deserves a much-needed worldwide awareness, and Beaconhill Smile Foundation was able to close this care gap successfully,” he recommended. The four kilometres walk started as early as 7 am, from Beaconhill Smile Clinic to Lakeshore Cancer Centre in Victoria Island Lagos. The walk also gave oral cancer sensitisation on the causes, preventive measures, early detection needs, and treatment of the disease followed afterwards.  Free oral and breast cancer checks followed immediately at Lakeshore cancer centre.  Beaconhill Smile Group emerged as the Best Dental Care provider at the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Awards (NHEA) 2022.  The dental organisation is a fast-rising international clinical chain with several specialist clinics across Lagos, Nigeria – from dentistry, physician-led skin aesthetics and dermatology centre, optometry and Beaconhilll Global Eye LCC in Atlanta, Georgia, USA.