In what could be described as another first among many by the company, Swiss Pharma Nigeria Limited (SWIPHA), a subsidiary of Servier, a French multinational pharmaceutical company, has received WHO prequalification of Zinc Dispersible 20mg Tablet from the World Health Organization (WHO). SWIPHA is the first company in Africa to obtain WHO prequalification for Zinc Tablet. According to the Managing Director of Swiss Pharma Nigeria Limited, Frederic Lieutaud, the WHO pre- qualification is a rigorous process that evaluates pharmaceutical products based on their quality, safety, and efficacy. This recognition is considered worldwide as a symbol of excellence in pharmaceutical manufacturing. “We are thrilled to announce to the public that we have received World Health Organization prequalification of Zinc Dispersible 20mg Tablet on the 2nd day of May 2023. As many of you may know, our company has been dedicated to providing high-quality pharmaceutical products that meet the highest safety and efficacy standards for over 47 years,” he said. He added that the company could only have achieved the feat with the support of its partners and clients. “We want to convey our most profound appreciation to some of our partners, regulatory bodies and customers, including the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), World Health Organization (WHO) Nigeria, Servier Generic Group, the United States Pharmacopoeia – Promoting the Quality of Medicines Plus (USP-PQM+), Maternal and Child Centre, Amuwo Odofin, Lagos, the General Hospital Alimosho, Lagos, Adeoyo Maternity Teaching Hospital, Ibadan and all other stakeholders who supported our journey to prequalification,” he said. Also speaking on the achievement, the Business Development & Licensing Director, Abbas Sambo, noted that the milestone is a testament to the company’s belief that every child deserves access to safe and effective medicines. He added that the company understands paediatric health is a critical issue in Nigeria and is proud to be part of the solution.