Unarguably, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, since he ascended the throne of his ancestors has continued to be in the news for different reasons, both negative and positive. And at different times, he has set tongues wagging over his actions and inactions, particularly about his marriages. But the highly revered monarch seems not to give a hoot about this. The dark-skinned monarch last year literally set the internet on fire when he went on a marriage spree which ended with him taking six beautiful brides with enviable status each in quick succession within one month. When in September 2022 he married three beautiful damsels, starting with Ebira-born Mariam Anako, not many foresaw that he would bring home several others until he married Dr. Elizabeth Akinmuda and Tobi Phillips all in one month. Can you beat that? While the news was still making the rounds, the king, again, increased the list in October of that year with yet another Olori, Ronke Ademiluyi, with whom he had been linked from his younger years in London. The same month, he brought to the palace Princess Temitope Adesegun, a niece to the former Works Commissioner and Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Prince Segun Adesegun. Expectedly, the king and his queens became a major topic of discussion across the country, especially on the internet. In fact, it was one of the most trending discussions among the poor and the rich, going side by side with the political discussion in the country. He was called several names. Some even insinuated that he was trying to toe the steps of the Biblical King Solomon. Did the handsome and well-revered monarch lose any sleep over this? Not at all! A source hinted that the Ooni was not bothered over such an issue; he simply regarded it as mere frivolity. Rather he is actually proud of his long list of women. To buttress our source, the dark-skinned monarch recently, for the first time hinted at his rationality for such a ‘record-breaking mission’. He recounted the tale that he was not fulfilled as a monarch when he had only one wife, adding that he has since achieved his purpose with his polygamous life. He told the audience that his wives are a part of the successes he has achieved as a first-class monarch in Nigeria.   He said many think he is adulterous because of his many women, this is not so but it is ‘’impetus to the throne as Arole (Heir) of Oduduwa’’  The story of his married life took a different dimension when his marriage to beautiful Olori Wuraola broke up. Shortly after the break up in 2017, the Ooni was romantically linked with several ladies. He denied the rumour though until he married beautiful Shilekunola Naomi Oluwasheyi. However, the marriage that produced a son, Tadenikawo, couldn’t stand the test of time, as it collapsed in 2021.