Segun Awofadeji in Bauchi The Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi Branch, Dr. Ibrahim Inuwa, was  allegedly assaulted by some military personnel in mufti at the Yelwa campus of the University on Monday night. THISDAY checks revealed that the incident occurred when the military men who were in a convoy of two vehicles drove into the campus but were stopped by the university’s security that prevented from going inside because their vehicles had tinted glasses. It was gathered from an eyewitness that the, “soldiers  forced their way into the campus and harassed the only security man at the gate at the time of the incident which was some minutes after 8.00pm. “The other security men were said to have gone to a nearby mosque to pray.” Narrating the incident while speaking to journalists at the ATBU security office, the ASUU chairman said he was on his way home when he saw the soldiers harassing the security man on duty at the gate and he stopped to inquire what was happening. According to him, “Just this (Monday) night, some few minutes after 8 O’clock, I was going out of the university and I saw a convoy of two vehicles, they were busy arguing and harassing the security man on duty. “At that time, most of the security men were praying in a mosque by the gate. So I had to stop because it is my responsibility as the Chairman of the union. “And I asked our security man in Hausa what was happening. The next thing, the guys in these two vehicles started asking me arrogantly ‘who are you?’ And I told them ‘no, I want to know what happened’ One of them said, ‘you’re very stupid! Do we know who we are? You’re very stupid!’ “I told them that this is a university and we have our rules and the next thing, they started shoving me, then one of them went to the extreme and slapped me three times. I called their attention that what they have done was wrong and I told them they would regret it. You can even see the prints of the slaps on my face,” he said. He narrated further that, “they said again that I was stupid because I was still talking, they were hitting me that I should keep quiet. It was at that point that the number of security men increased, so we instructed them to block the gate because we must know their identity. “They are claiming that they are military guys but to give us their details is now a problem. They were on mufti and they forced their way into the university. The union is now aware of the incident and we need their details to write to let the Chief of Army Staff know about it. “Our Union’s National Officer is here and it is as good as the National Secretariat is aware of the assault on the Chairman of the Branch for trying to prevail on a crisis at the gate. They were harassing and molesting the security man at the gate and if I wasn’t there, they would have finished and force their way out of the gate.” Also speaking, the National Internal Auditor of ASUU, Adamu Babayo, who was there said he was at home when he was told that some soldiers came to the school and slapped the Union’s Chairperson. He also narrated how the assault occurred. The two major gates leading to the campus were shut and blocked by the students as they denied cars access into the school while those going out had to also turn back. Angry students were later seen  throwing stones and other objects at the two vehicles that were parked by the barricade of the exit gate.