MIVA Open University, a subsidiary of The uLesson Group, is proud to announce its official licence issuance by the National Universities Commission (NUC) to operate as an open university in Nigeria. This significant milestone marks a major achievement for The uLesson Group and highlights its commitment to providing exceptional educational services to secondary and tertiary students. The licence granted by the NUC allows MIVA Open University to provide full bachelor’s degree programmes through Online Distance e-Learning (ODeL) mode. Miva will commence its programmes with the first cohort in September 2023. The take-off courses are Bachelor’s degrees in Computer Science, Cyber Security, Data Science, Software Engineering, Accounting, Economics, Business Management and Public Policy & Administration. The university plans to rapidly expand in 2024 to offer degrees in critical areas like Nursing, Public Health, Education, Law, among others. The licence also demonstrates the university’s compliance with NUC’s regulatory requirements, ensuring that the educational services provided by MIVA Open University are of the highest quality. Commenting on the approval by the NUC, the Senior Vice President, Academics at The uLesson Group, Iheanyi Akwitti said: “We are delighted to receive this licence from the National Universities Commission, which recognises the quality and standard of education provided by MIVA Open University. Our institutions are focused on reducing the barriers to quality education by leveraging innovative and state-of-the-art technology to create and distribute educational content in the most efficient manner. With this licence, we are now able to provide accessible and affordable education to undergraduates, regardless of their location or background.” “MIVA Open University offers a wide range of programmes including a blend of cutting-edge, proprietary curricula created to global standards that provide innovative market-ready skills which will enable its graduates to become agents of positive change in the new economies of technology, business, and governance. The Miva Open University also offers flexible learning options that allow students to balance their studies with other commitments.” He added. MIVA is committed to its purpose, which is to prepare people for opportunity and improve society through education. The launch of the Open University is an answer to millions of people in Nigeria for high quality accessible tertiary education.