Ferdinand Ekechukwu It is sometimes not surprising what fans of music celebrities could get from their favourite artistes and vice versa. But a recent act by a popular Nigerian artiste has stirred reactions and got many observers talking. A moment that drew attention was when the married singer came down from the stage to kiss a female fan, causing an uproar and criticism from many who questioned his actions as a married man with children. The singer who is currently on a world tour with his twin brother, aiming to perform in 100 cities globally, recently performed in Amsterdam and received high praise for his performance. Peter Okoye, along with his twin brother, Paul, performed at the Psquare AFAS concert in Amsterdam. During the event, ‘Mr P’ was captured on video jumping off the stage, moving towards the audience, and kissing an excited female fan. After leaving the stage, the music star’s first action was to move towards the direction of the female fan and other ladies who happened to be standing in the front row and were excited to see him. Approaching the ladies, Peter tried to kiss one of them, and she turned her cheek to him. However, he also made sure to plant another kiss on her mouth despite her seemingly reserved posture. The camera later showed the lady in hysteria. The video of Peter’s contact with the lady soon caused a major buzz on social media after it went viral. While some were left wondering others condemned his actions as a married man. The video raised a series of mixed reactions, with many condemning the act as disgusting. Some asked how the wife would feel seeing her husband willing kissing another lady in public. His action caused excitement at the concert and many who were at the event roared in ecstasy but social media users thought the action was uncalled for.  Despite the backlash, Peter remained unfazed, adding that he was only performing his duties. He claimed that a lot of ladies at the event actually got kissed as he advised others not to be jealous. “But a lot of my female fans collect correct kisses last night for Amsterdam. Pls dont be jealous! #JustDoingMyJob…” he posted. The concert was stormed by many of the singer’s fans, followers who vibed with them as they rendered some of their hit songs.