Organisers of the ninth edition of the gold label Okpekpe international 10km road race have restated that the May 27, 2023historic event will be conducted strictly in accordance with the rules and regulations of World Athletics. The organisers also warned intending runners that the use of the temporary timing chip that will be attached to their running bibs is compulsory. “The race number and temporary timing chip are linked to the name and finishing time such that allowing another person to compete with your number will result in disqualification of the other person and your exclusion from next year’s event,” said the Race Director, Zack Amodu. Amodu revealed distance markers will be placed at each kilometre mark. The race director also revealed the pre-race technical meeting with the international elite athletes and their representatives will hold a day to the race. “This is very crucial to the succesful organisation of the race because it is where all arrangements for the race viz the warm-up schedule, configuration of refreshment stations and how to reach the finish line in case of drop-out among other things are communicated to the international and local elite athletes,” revealed Amodu. According to the race director, the elite athletes are also free to provide their own refreshments and can nominate at which stations they shall be made available to them. “We are sticking, again, with the recommendation of World Athletics that personalised bibs with names of the elite athletes will be provided for them to wear on race day.” Amodu is confident of another hugely successful race on Saturday May 27in Okpekpe. He said organisers are ready with the additional responsibilty that comes with organising a gold label race. “This will be the first gold label 10km road race to be organised in Nigeria and we are up to the task of organising another world class event,” Amodu assured the race stakeholders. The Okpekpe international 10km road race is the first road running event in Nigeria to be granted a label status which signifies its world-class status