Sunday Ehigiator With the aim of redefining fashion for women, NEYAH, a Nigerian online bespoke clothing brand for today’s woman has unveiled its new logo alongside its latest Afro-inspired collection, ‘The Gemstone Collection’. In a statement signed by the founder, Ogo Idam, she said the avant-garde idea was born when she observed that women needed a reliable and trusted bespoke brand to gear up for the corporate world. “At the heart of NEYAH’s brand identity is the empowerment of modern women in their everyday lives, to look the part as they break barriers and glass ceilings in their respective professions. “The core of NEYAH’s styling is bespoke Afrocentric clothing that is deeply rooted in Nigerian origin and inspired by the versatility of African women.” Speaking on the latest collection, she said it displays the use of vibrant colours and patterns to create exuberant, Afrocentric yet sophisticated looks fit for women of different ages, body types and styles. “The Gemstone Collection includes a dynamic styling combination of corporate clothing and smart wear that can Redefining Fashion For Women. “I am particularly excited to share this Collection with the world because a lot of thought went into the design of each piece. I enjoy alternative clothing choices and sharing creative options with friends and loved ones, so NEYAH is my way of expressing these custom-made, fashionable and quality clothing options with you. “I love Gemstones, they evoke a sense of innate beauty and brilliance that I wanted to capture and translate into my designs, celebrating individual style and sophistication. I wanted this Collection to be a reminder of the intricate beauty and colours of these special stones, and an inspiration for NEYAH Women to create their pieces. “Ultimately, the NEYAH Experience is unique and personalised; every NEYAH piece is crafted with care and precision, tailored-made specially for you to ensure that it fits your figure perfectly and reflects your style. Any woman who designs her NEYAH piece, to her taste, size and style, will be more than confident to not only wear it but pursue her dreams and conquer the world in it.”