A leading cosmetics brand, BeautybyAD founded by star influencer, Adeola Adeyemi famously known as Diiadem has launched a new product known as “Matte Out” to further strengthen the narrative as a pacesetter in the beauty sector. The presentation of the new product was held May 10, 2023 in Lagos and was hosted by TV personality, Taymib with celebrities from all walks of life gracing the event. It was every inch a beauty affair as everyone showed up looking resplendent in their beautiful apparels, making all sorts of beauty statements. The Founder and Chief Executive Officer of BeautybyAD, Diiadem was clearly ecstatic with the turnout and the prospects of the new product. During her speech, she explained what the new product is all about and the reason behind its launch. “As a brand, we wanted to create a product that not only provides value for your money but also takes care of your skin. We took our time to create this beautiful masterpiece, and we are thrilled to finally share it with you. We listened to your needs and feedback, and I can guarantee that this product is worth the wait,” she began. Continuing, she described what the new product is all about, “Matte Out primer is an exciting product that creates a barrier between your skin and your makeup, enhancing your makeup application by making it adhere better to the skin. “Matte out controls shine and helps your makeup last longer. We were very intentional with the formulation of this product and that’s why we specifically opted for a MATTIFYING PRIMER. “The finish of a primer is just as important as its ability to make your makeup last longer, and we wanted to make sure that our primer beautifully pairs with our dewy complexion products like our luxe skin concealers and best-selling foundations. “In addition to its mattifying properties, our new MATTE OUT primer is infused with a skincare ingredient Vitamin E, which preserves the product against oxidation. “The Vitamin E in matte out also has moisturizing properties which makes your skin not to overly dry out after application. As a brand that cares for your skin, we also wanted a primer that would nourish your skin without disrupting your skin barrier. “We deliberately chose to use Vitamin E in this product to ensure the safety of your skin, as this ingredient is known for its anti-inflammatory properties. This makes the Matte Out primer an excellent choice for all skin types, including sensitive skin like mine.” She added that BeautybyAD is committed to producing an expanding variety of luxurious and unique beauty products to suit and boost the beauty of every woman and man.