The renowned educationist and longest serving Principal of Anwar-UL Islam College, Agege, Lagos, Alhaji Jimoh Adisa Gbadamosi who died in the early hours of yesterday (Monday May 15th, 2023) at the ripe age of 96 will be buried today at Abari Cemetery, Lagos. Time is 4pm. According to a press statement by one of his children, Architect Abiodun Gbadamosi, Pa Gbadamosi died peacefully in his Lagos home surrounded by his children and relatives. Born on March 18th, 1927 on Lagos Island to parents who were traders. He began his early education at Holy Cross Primary School, Lagos Island in the mid 30s and St. Gregory College, Obalende, Lagos for his post primary education. He later proceeded to Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland where he bagged his first Bachelor’s degree in Geography Education. His quest for further education to equip himself for his future career took him to Oxford University where he bagged a Master’s degree also in Geography Education. A brilliant and exceptional man, the late educationist started his illustrious career as a pioneer Principal of the then Ahmaddiyah High School, Eleyele, Ibadan in the then Western Region. In 1957, he moved to Lagos as Principal of Anwar-Ul Islam, Agege, (Formerly Ahmaddiyah College, Agege) from there he went to Jubril Martins Secondary School where he served until his voluntary retirement in 1977 at the early age of 50. Over the last 46 years, Pa Gbadamosi retired but not tired as he has been involved in various activities both in sports and education at both state and national levels. He was chairman, Lagos State Scholarship Board, Chairman, Lagos Amateur Football Association, Member, National Judo Association and Chairman, Principals’ Cup Committee. He also served as Commissioner, Lagos State Local Government, Chairman, Anwar-Ul Islam Movement. Pa Gbadamosi’s selfless service in his field at both state and national levels hasn’t gone unnoticed. On December 13th, 2002, the Federal Government of Nigeria conferred on him the National Honour of Order Of the Niger (OON). Survived by children, grand-children, great children and extended family such as Architect Abiodun Gbadamosi, Alhaja Abimbola Adedun, Architect Olakunle Gbadamosi, Caverton Helicopter boss, Mr. Aderemi Makanjuola, Alhaji Razaq Dawodu, Alhaji Taiwo Olatunji, Olayinka Gbadamosi (Deceased) amongst others.