Mary Nnah A strategic planning and implementation media solutions outfit, That Good Media, recently hosted a Nollywood Stakeholder forum at 1952 Africa in the heart of Lekki. This forum was a follow-up to the announcement made by That Good Media’s founder, Toyosi Etim-Effiong, earlier in the month about her partnership with the ESSENCE Festival of Culture and Film New Orleans to lead a delegation of Nollywood’s stakeholders to the United States. Gracing the event were actors, media personalities, and influencers. During the  Forum, Director and Event Lead, Essence Film Festival, Lamonia Deanne Brown, said, “Nigeria Day is Saturday, July 1st. The entire Nigeria Day will be dedicated to filmmakers, storytellers, people who help with funding, producers, actors, and everyone who makes the whole Nigerian film industry what it is today. ” This year, for the first time in its history, the Essence Festival of Culture will include an Africa House. That Good Media will be partnering with the Essence Film Festival to lead a delegation of Nollywood stakeholders for ‘Nigeria Day’. This day will feature panel sessions on topics like ‘Creating and Promoting Globally Relatable Content’ and movie screenings that highlight the Nigerian film industry and provide stakeholders with an opportunity to network with global counterparts. In her opening speech of the day, Toyosi Etim-Effiong highlighted her passion for Nollywood and interest in seeing Nollywood grow into an industry that is well-connected and ranked with its global counterparts. “Nollywood and Afrobeats are of the same mother and father. Nollywood cannot be the child that does not make it,” Toyosi Etim-Effiong stated. The Essence Festival is an annual event that celebrates African-American culture and music. It is held in New Orleans, Louisiana, and attracts hundreds of thousands of attendees from all over the world. The festival features a range of activities, including musical performances, panel discussions, and cultural events. First held in 1995, it has since become one of the largest events of its kind in the United States of America. AREAi, NCFRMI Equip 4000 Children Across Eight IDP Camps with  Skills Mary Nnah Aid for Rural Education Access Initiative (AREAi) has recently launched a partnership with the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants, and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) under the leadership of the Honorable Federal Commissioner, Hajiya Imaam Sulieman-Ibrahim Fsi. Led by its Executive Director, Prince Gideon Olanrewaju, AREAi would drive the facilitation and access to accelerated and informal educational opportunities for IDP, refugee, and migrant children. ‘Project Educate All’ is focused on addressing the foundational needs that bridge the educational gaps of children amongst persons of concern (PoCs), and the marginalized communities in Nigeria. This pilot is being implemented across eight IDP camps namely: New Kuchingoro, Takuchara, Karamajiji, Wassa, Waru, New Karshi, Malaysian Garden, and Yimutu, which have over 800 children, ages 5 to 18 enrolled already. These children will be equipped with relevant skills across four different pathways, namely: Literacy, Numeracy, 21st Century Life Skills, and the Digital Skills Accelerator (DSA) programme for STEM. This initiative is heavily integrated with globally recognised methodologies and digital technology that allows these children to experience learning at their teaching levels, as well as the ability to learn in their mother tongue for enhanced understanding. In her remarks at the official flag-off/ project launch recently, the Honorable Federal Commissioner succinctly explained that: “This engagement has not only provided the much-needed employment in these communities but also allowed us to prioritise the localisation of our interventions and promote the sustainability of the programme.” She maintained that education remains the bedrock of development, and peaceful coexistence and pointed out that without education for all, the displaced would lead a very harsh life and existence, one that could also lead to severe social and economic consequences for the nation, particularly for the people of concern (PoCs), IDPs, and host communities. Over the year, over 4000 children will continue to learn across four pathways in the eight IDP camps where the implementation is being carried out. Unlimint Rebrands in Line With Mission to Eliminate Financial Borders Mary Nnah Leading global fintech, Global fintech Unlimint is changing its name to Unlimit in a bid to align the company’s brand with its new positioning and mission to deliver solutions that eliminate financial borders Unlimint rebranding of its name to Unlimit will reflect the company’s new positioning, unify its product line, and highlight its mission to eliminate financial borders, enabling businesses to operate both locally and internationally with ease across Europe, the UK, LatAm, APAC, and Africa. Unlimit was initially launched in 2009 with a focus on payment processing services. However, in its 14 years of existence, the company has never stopped expanding its capabilities and product offering, constantly implementing new solutions that answered the ever-changing demand of the market. Today the company boasts one of the largest in-house developed payment infrastructures in the world, consisting of various financial services like payment processing, banking as a service (BaaS), and an on-ramp fiat solution for crypto, DeFi, and GameFi. The new name is a strategic step in the company’s goal to unify its products and amplify its brand on a global spectrum. The company’s BaaS solution will now be called Unlimit BaaS, while the on- and off-ramp solution for Web 3, GateFi, will be renamed to Unlimit Crypto. It will also come with a new website and slogan of “borderless payments”. The fintech is evolving alongside the industry to deliver new solutions that meet ever-changing users’ needs, and the new website reflects this by providing a holistic view of the company’s offerings with an interactive map and descriptions of payment methods per region to empower businesses across the globe to make educated decisions about their expansion plans. Cross-border transactions have been growing consistently over the last few years and according to BCC Research, the market is projected to grow to $238.8 billion (£193,556 billion) by 2027, at a CAGR of 5.3 percent. Unlimit aims to give clients the freedom and flexibility to pay from anywhere, at any time, eliminating any limitations that may be keeping businesses from expanding. Commenting on the new branding, founder and CEO of Unlimit, Kirill Evstratov,  said,  “As a company that has always moved alongside industry trends, we never stop perfecting our products and portfolio, and want our brand to reflect this. The change is a natural development for us because it highlights our mission and the end goal – the removal of any existing financial boundaries, that could prevent our customers from operating and growing both locally and globally, allowing them to “unlimit themselves and go beyond borders”. We are committed to our goal, committed to our customers, and will continue delivering cutting-edge solutions to accommodate this.”