Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The federal government has Inaugurated the Advertising Offences Tribunal Council vested with the power to regulate and control advertising in Nigeria in all aspects and ramifications. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammad, yesterday in Abuja, inaugurated the six-man committee headed by Justice Cecilia Olatoregun. He said the federal government’s interest in boosting the role and mandate of the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (ARCON) for effective regulation of advertising, advertisement and marketing communication in Nigeria was predicated on the awareness that the Nigeria Advertising industry held enormous potentials to influence the nation’s economic growth. President Muhammadu Buhari, had assented to the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria Act No. 23 of 2022, which took into cognisance the inadequacies of its predecessor as well as the need to protect consumers from illegal, untruthful, dishonest, indecent, and distasteful advertising, advertisements and marketing communication directed at, or targeting the Nigerian market. In his remarks at the inauguration yesterday, Mohammad said the tribunal has the empower to entertain all matters of violations of the provisions of the Act, the Code of Advertising Practice, Standard of Practice, and other subsidiary legislations made pursuant to the Act. He said the federal government would continue to support the advancement of the advertising industry in country and would ensure that being a nation with remarkable characteristic as well as diverse ethnic, cultural and religious background, advertising, advertisement and marketing communications was carried out with a level of decency as well as respect for cultural values and constitutional tenets. The other members of the tribunal are Mr. Charles Odenigbo, Mr. Moroof Aileru, Mrs. Julia Oku Jack, Alhaji Bello Kankarofi and Mr. Idorenyen Enang. FG Inaugurates Advertising Offences Tribunal Olawale Ajimotokan in Abuja The federal government has Inaugurated the Advertising Offences Tribunal Council vested with the power to regulate and control advertising in Nigeria in all aspects and ramifications. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammad, yesterday in Abuja, inaugurated the six-man committee headed by Justice Cecilia Olatoregun. He said the federal government’s interest in boosting the role and mandate of the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria (ARCON) for effective regulation of advertising, advertisement and marketing communication in Nigeria was predicated on the awareness that the Nigeria Advertising industry held enormous potentials to influence the nation’s economic growth. President Muhammadu Buhari, had assented to the Advertising Regulatory Council of Nigeria Act No. 23 of 2022, which took into cognisance the inadequacies of its predecessor as well as the need to protect consumers from illegal, untruthful, dishonest, indecent, and distasteful advertising, advertisements and marketing communication directed at, or targeting the Nigerian market. In his remarks at the inauguration yesterday, Mohammad said the tribunal has the empower to entertain all matters of violations of the provisions of the Act, the Code of Advertising Practice, Standard of Practice, and other subsidiary legislations made pursuant to the Act. He said the federal government would continue to support the advancement of the advertising industry in country and would ensure that being a nation with remarkable characteristic as well as diverse ethnic, cultural and religious background, advertising, advertisement and marketing communications was carried out with a level of decency as well as respect for cultural values and constitutional tenets. The other members of the tribunal are Mr. Charles Odenigbo, Mr. Moroof Aileru, Mrs. Julia Oku Jack, Alhaji Bello Kankarofi and Mr. Idorenyen Enang.