* Facilities include healing garden and organ transplants operating room * To cater for president, VP, their immediate families, VIPs, etc Deji Elumoye in Abuja  President Muhammadu Buhari will on Friday, May 19, 2023 inaugurate the state-of-the-art Presidential/VIP Wing of State House Medical Centre in Abuja. The inauguration of the N21 billion facility, according to a release issued on Wednesday by State House Director of Information, Mr Abiodun Oladunjoye, is a demonstration of the president’s commitment to advancing healthcare management in the country. After the ribbon-cutting ceremony, President Buhari, to be accompanied by the Permanent Secretary of the State House, Tijjani Umar, will embark on a guided tour of the hospital.  According to the Permanent Secretary, “We are excited that Mr. President has kindly consented to inaugurate this legacy and transformative project on the cusp of the completion of his two-term tenure as President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Since the inception of this project in 2021, the State House Management has successfully completed several projects including a Special Care Centre, Biosafety Level 2 Molecular Laboratory, certified by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), a medium capacity incinerator and the Dental Wing Extension Building at the State House Medical Centre, Asokoro, a block of 2-bedroom flats at the Staff Quarters of the Medical Centre, as well as a 54-seater State House Multi-Purpose Training Centre at the Auditorium. ‘The Conference Car Unit (CCU) workshop and the Modern Fleet Management hub will be commissioned next week.” The Presidential/VIP Wing, which will coexist with the State House Medical Centre, located in Asokoro, Abuja remains committed to providing accessible, well-equipped, and rejuvenated healthcare services, catering to the diverse needs of patients through a range of comprehensive medical treatments. The legacy project, situated within the premises of the Presidential Villa, had its ground-breaking ceremony conducted by the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, on November 1, 2021. Spanning an impressive total floor area of 2,485 square meters on a suspended floor with a basement, the hospital, which serves as a specialized Intensive Care Centre, caters for the president, vice-president, their immediate families and VIPs; incorporates state-of-the-art medical technology. The Presidential/VIP Wing houses several specialized departments, to be staffed by a team of medical professionals, featuring five consultation rooms dedicated to various specialties, including respiratory, cardiology, ophthalmology, ENT and general consultation. Additionally, the hospital has a specialized X-ray suite equipped with a digital X-ray machine, as well as a diagnostic suite encompassing MRI, CT scan and endoscopy facilities. Moreover, patients and visitors can enjoy access to a Healing Garden, designed to foster healing, relaxation and enhancement of overall well-being. With a total cost amounting to N21 billion, completed well on schedule and on budget, the VIP Wing also showcases a Catheterization Laboratory (Cath lab), two operating rooms for regular procedures and special procedures such as organ transplants.