Praise Overflow 2.0, a musical event aimed at creating an atmosphere of intense worship and praise, is set to take Lagos by storm. The event, which is scheduled to hold at 1p.m. on May 13th, 2023, promises to be an unforgettable experience, with some of Nigeria’s finest gospel music ministers slated to perform. Last year’s Praise Overflow featured gospel music icons such as Dunsin Oyekan, Mike Abdul, Frank Edwards, Dasola, Femi Okunuga and Bukola Bekes. The event was a huge success, with thousands of people in attendance and many more tuning in online to participate in the worship experience. Building on the success of last year’s event, Praise Overflow 2.0 promises to be even more electrifying. With an impressive line-up of gospel music ministers such as Nathaniel Bassey, Eben, Joe Praize, Simply Grace, Mobolaji Adekunle, The Lively Stones Choir, and The Sound of Many Waters, attendees can expect an unforgettable experience of worship and praise. In addition to the impressive line-up of music ministers, Praise Overflow 2.0 will also feature powerful testimonies, prayers, and a message of hope from renowned pastors and Christian leaders. The event is open to everyone and promises to be a life-changing experience. “We are thrilled to announce Praise Overflow 2.0,” said the event organisers. “Last year’s event was a huge success, and we are excited to build on that success and bring an even more powerful worship experience to Nigeria. We believe that worship and praise are powerful tools for spiritual transformation, and we are excited to see what God will do at this year’s event.” Speaking on the event, Pastor Ben Akabueze who is the host Pastor, said, “We are excited to host Praise Overflow 2.0, a worship night like no other. This year’s edition promises to be bigger and better than the last, with more anointed psalmists, more worship, and more of God’s presence. We invite everyone to come and experience the supernatural move of God in a way that they have never seen before.” The event will hold at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, The King’s Court Parish, 3, Keystone Bank Crescent, off Adeyemo Alakija, Victoria Island and will be broadcasted live on various online platforms including the church’s social media channels and others.