Ebere Nwoji Sanlam Life Insurance Nigeria Limited, formerly FBN Insurance Limited, has  rewarded outstanding members of the  company’s Sales force at the 2022 MD/CEO Ember Championship and The Retail Annual Competition (TRAC) held in Jos, Plateau State. Sanlam Life boasts a potent sales force with thousands of vibrant men and women all over Nigeria. According to the insurer, the sales force is in different categories ranging from Financial Advisors to Area Sales Managers. In his comment, the Executive Director, Retail Distribution, Sanlam Life Insurance Nigeria Limited, Odinakachi Umekwe, commended the efforts of the retail team for the outstanding performances they put forward despite the macroeconomic headwinds of the year 2022. Umekwe said; “Our sales champions all over Nigeria have sold insurance under the most challenging environment to ensure the company stays ahead in the retail space. This TRAC ceremony is to adequately recognise and reward the overall top sales men and women for the year and motivate others to strive for more.” The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Sanlam Life Insurance Limited, Tunde Mimiko, presented a brand-new Hyundai Accent car to the overall winner of the 2022 TRAC Award (Financial Advisors category), Agene Jacob Israel. Winners in other categories got cash prizes, return tickets to United States of America, a trip to Dubai as well as training opportunity at the South African Business School, University of Stellenbosch. Receiving his award, an elated Agene Jacob Israel, thanked his Manager, Vivian Ibeawuchi, for encouraging him, and also the management of Sanlam Life Insurance for the kind gesture. “I am so happy to be the overall winner this year. This award is proof that, indeed, hard work pays. I thank my supervisor, Vivian Ibeawuchi, for her support and words of encouragement. Winning would have been impossible without her guidance. I also appreciate the Management of Sanlam Life Insurance for boosting our confidence to do better with this award, year in, year out,” Agene said. Speaking on the second set of awards, the ED, Retail, Odinakachi Umekwe reiterated that the MD/CEO Ember Championship was designed to push new premiums and increase persistency between September and December of every year. “We know how tough hard it is to get people to buy insurance, especially as the year ends. To encourage sales and get new businesses, this competition was set up to reward the Sales Area that meets certain sales criteria during this period,” he said.