The leadership of the Paralympic Committee Nigeria (PCN) has concluded plans for its Elective Congress slated for Asaba, Delta State on Monday May 15, 2023. President of PCN, Brig. Gen. Emico Eruwa (rtd) who revealed this during the week, thanked the the Government of Delta State for approving the hosting of  the congress in the state. “By this gesture, Delta State has proven to be PCN-friendly state and the body will ever be grateful to the state for this big relief to us on the board. Now that we have a sponsor, we’ll now concentrate on logistics as I can’t wait to hand over to the incoming president,” observed Gen Eruwa who is the immediate past President of Nigeria Wheelchair Basketball Federation. With the election tagged ‘ASABA 2023’ holding barely a week after the wheelchair basketball president and vice president elections held in Abuja to conclude all  Para-sports Federation elections, the PCN Secretary General, Issa Suleiman, informed reporters  that all logistics that will ensure free, fair and credible election were already in place. These include a three-man  electoral committee made up of Dr. (Mrs). Thechla Opara, Director Para Sports Department, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development(FMYSD), Chief Solomon Ogba, Vice President, Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) and Mr.Tunde Kazeem. Also set up is a two-man Appeals Committee which has  Dr. Segun Akinlotan as Chairman while Mr. Patrick Ibeh is the Secretary. According to guidelines for the congress, all protests arising from the election must be filed to the Appeals Committee within 24 hours of the polls accompanied with N100,000 being the appeal fee for the executive office. Appeal fees for the regional  election is N50,000. Meanwhile, at the close of nominations for the various offices, four candidates are vying for the post of the president. They include; CP Anderson Bankole (Para Table Tennis); Mr. Sunday Odebode (Para Table Tennis); Mr Paul Mduakor (president, Nigeria  Amputee Football Federation) and Mr Chiemeka Charles (president, Nigeria Para Powerlifting Federation). For the post of the Secretary General, it  is a straight fight between the incumbent  Mr. Issa Suleiman and Mr. Kayode Oladele (President  Nigeria Sitting Volleyball Federation).