The Managing Director and Chief Executive of Executive Trainers Limited, Ajoke Ogunsan, has made the list of top 50 most outstanding and impactful women in leadership. Selected by a leading media outlet, Guardian Newspaper, Ogunsan who is the wife of Lagos businessman, entrepreneur and public officer, Ayo Ogunsan, has been recognised based on what the organisers described as her ‘remarkable achievements’. In a letter addressed to the recipient recently, the organisers said Ogunsan was also selected for leading an organisation which has largely contributed to the growth of the economy at large. ‘In view of your remarkable achievements as one of the most reputed women in leadership in Nigeria, directing the affairs of one of the most outstanding organisations in the country, as well as your overall contribution to the growth of the nation’s economy, you have been selected as a major stakeholder to contribute to the report through concise writeup/article on pertinent issues.’Profiling the recipient of the recognition, Dr (Mrs) Ajoke Oluwafunmilola Ogunsan has core competencies in training consulting, entrepreneurship and philanthropy. Her area of specialisation traverses leadership and mentorship for managerial and administrative roles at workplaces.Although a graduate of Biochemistry from the prestigious Lagos State University (LASU), she has, the most part of her life, holistically explored the tenets of Business Administration and Leadership pedagogy. Earlier on, she had attended Araromi Primary School and Jubril Martins High School for her primary and secondary education, respectively.Her working experience traverses roles as Executive Director, Executive Motors Limited (2007-2008); Treasury Officer, Cadbury Nigeria Limited  (2006-2007); Purchasing Officer, Rhoda Nigeria Limited. At the moment, she is the Managing Director/CEO of Executive Trainers Limited, a role she assumed since 2008.Relentlessly pursuing her career, Mrs Ogunsan has a couple of professional certifications. She is a Member of the Institute of Directors of Nigeria; Fellow, Institute of Direct Marketing of Nigeria; Member, Nigerian-British Chamber of Commerce; Member, Nigerian-American Chamber of Commerce.As a testament to her love for erudition and scholarship, she has had to bag a handful of certifications from international citadels of learning. They include but are not limited to Lagos Business School, 2008 (Company Director Course); Oxford Brookes University, UK, 2008. (Advanced Leadership Programme); Brunel University, London, 2009(Leadership Programme); GeorgeTown University, Washington DC, 2010 (Leadership Development Course); University of Wolverhampton, UK, 2014 (Advanced Leadership Programme) and University of Houston, Houston-Texas, US, 2015 (International Top Executive Programme). The media outfit intends to do a special publication to that effect on May 28, 2023.