Mary Nnah SilverBird Film Distribution organised a road show by Bikers and Cyclers in Lagos, to promote the movie Fast X also known as Fast and Furious 10 on Sunday 14th May 2023. The car racers, Bikers and cyclers raced from SilverBird Galleria VI to Bay Lounge Lekki Phase 1. The firm holds the exclusive rights to distribute Universal and Paramount Pictures titles in West Africa. The movie would be Premiered on Wednesday, May,  17th, 2023, and released Friday, May 19th, 2023 in Cinemas Nationwide. Furthermore, the event is proudly supported by Infinix’s official mobile partner,  Fearless Energy Drink’s official Refreshing Brand, Jacmotor’s official Auto, Nescafe’s official coffee, Hank, Samllchopng, and Occasions and Events. Marketing Manager for Silverbird Film Distribution Otega Williams Uwagho said they decided to do something different from what people are used to as well as improve on what we have been doing better, since Fast and Furious is about cars and car racing, we decided to do something like introducing cyclers, bikers, racers to publicize the movie. That’s why we brought in some sports cars that can depict the movie and create awareness for the movie. “Fast and Furious 10 has some intriguing features, JAC motors saw what we are doing and they love the idea and they bought the initiative. Uwagho noted that “People are waiting to see the premiere of the movie and we are expecting one billion naira box office for Fast and Furious X, so we need to do everything we can to achieve that goal.” Rating the movie 10 over 10, he said, they did perfectly well from seasons 1 to 9, t so Fast and Furious 10, is better than others. “Nigeria should expect something different from this episode with more bike stunts, car stunts, and a new cast that was introduced, people should watch out for Fast 10  which is coming to the cinemas on  May 19 and premiered at Silverbird Cinemas on May 17th,2023″, he added. Also, Marketing Manager for Infinix Nigeria, Opeyemi Adewunmi, said Infinix is a device that people love the most, adding, ” We are doing this because of the new device Infinix Note 30 series which we are going to launch soon. One unique thing about the device is fast amazing and supercharged.  We are trying to synchronize both the Fast performance of the device and the Fast X movie premiere as well.” Adewunmi added that Fast and Furious movies talk about roadshows, speed, and energy likewise the Infinix Note 30 series is coming with a high capacity to charge your phone within a limited time, while you have energy for the day. With a small charge, you have an amazing big battery that will last you all through the day. “I have been following all the other Fast and Furious episodes and so I believe this new episode is going to be very intriguing and different from the last episode. Nigerians are eager to watch it. The most interesting thing about the movie is the speed of the cars moving together as a team and there were able to achieve the best. Our infinix brand, our major focus is the youths and professionals and they want new things that will help them in their daily lives. We take it to them and they are one of our family.” In addition, Marketing Communications Manager for JAC Autos, Franklyn Okotie, said that these are fast-driving cars, Fast and Furious, which was launched last year and Nigerians have bought some of the cars. Okotie stated that for the firm, the roadshow was an opportunity to showcase, bikers, and cyclers,  adding “It was a good opportunity for Nigerians for the first time, to see the J7 model in a fleet of cars in a long road show. This premiere is for Fast and Furious 10 and that is what it is for now.” On her part the Assistant Brand Manager, for Fearless Energy Drinks Kanyinsola Sangowawa said just as the name of the brand, implies “Fearless”, so Fast X Is a fearless experience for example, it takes somebody who has the guts to do fearless things and we decided to sponsor the movie because there is a synergy between the actions in the movie and the brand itself as it gives energy. There is no other way to showcase the benefits of taking the brand if not sponsoring the event.” Sangowawa added that our products are meant to energize people as much as possible, adding, “At the premiere, we will bring a car simulation where everyone will have the experience of what it means to drive a car. When you drink fearless, you will have the ability to do extraordinary things. The movie is 100 percent amazing and this last episode is going to be mind-blowing.”