Few weeks after Enugu Rangers and Doma United clashed in Group B of the Abridged Nigeria Premier League, NPFL, the two sides are again set for another confrontation in the quarter finals of the Federation Cup Chief coach of Rangers International F.C, Mbwas Mangut, has stated that the club’s quarter-final opponent in the Federation Cup 2023, Doma United F.C of Gombe, will pose some difficulties for his wards but assured that the ‘Flying Antelopes’ is determined to come out victorious. Coach Mangut, who stood in for technical adviser, Abdul Maikaba, while fielding questions after his side’s 3-1 victory over NNL side, F.C Ebedei of Ekiti in the Round of 16 encounter that was completed on Thursday at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, described the Federation Cup as a competition with a lot of surprises. “We just overcame one of the surprise teams of the competition, F.C Ebedei and they gave us a good match despite the score line. We showed more maturity and determination to win and got it. In the next round, we expect a much more difficult side, Doma United, which we played twice in the NPFL and saw the quality in them but we are much determined and focused to do the needful and pick the ticket to the semi-final,” stated the youthful tactician. He further said, “Our players are in the best frame of mind to challenge any team remaining in the competition as we hope to use the competition to compensate for our not-too-impressive show in the NPFL. We understand that our opponent, Doma United. They are a mobile young side that can keep the ball and take their chances just similar to what we do but with the fire of determination burning within our players, we shall have the edge.” Recall that Rangers edged past a young and enterprising F.C Ebedei 3-1 in the round of 16 encounters that was completed on Thursday morning after heavy rains had forced match officials to half proceedings on Wednesday with coach Abdul Maikaba handing starts to Obinna Idika and Philip Clement as he kept faith with the side that was forced to a draw by Rivers United in the last NPFL encounter of the season. Goals from Innocent Gabriel, Saidu Adamu, and Austin Onyemaechi in 5, 28, and 29 minutes were enough to cancel out Odekunle Musiliu’s 20th-minute effort to hand the six-time champions of the competition a safe passage to the quarter-finals. In the second half of the feisty encounter, chances fell for both sides to score goals but quality goalkeeping from both ends ensured that fans did not celebrate with Detan Ogundare’s double saves late into the match, outstanding.