The United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc is set to celebrate this year’s Africa Day in commemoration of African unity with the fifth edition of the annual UBA Africa Conversations. A statement yesterday, disclosed that the event would be held at the bank’s head office in Lagos. “Coming at a time where Africans are achieving great feat on the global front, UBA Conversation 2023 provides the opportunity for the African and global audience to hear and connect with diverse panelists on their African journeys, and how they have waded through various challenges to attain global successes in their own rights. “This year’s theme is: ‘Innovating for Growth in Africa’ and interestingly, this edition involves an all-female panel who are certified professionals in their own right from various fields. They include the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, UBA Africa, Abiola Bawuah; President, Transnational Corporation (Transcorp) Plc, Owen Omogiafo; award-winning and trendsetting Foodpreneur/Chef, Hilda Baci; Renowned Fashion Designer, Banke Lawson-Kuku and Business & Technology Executive; Folusho Gbadamosi. “These intelligent women will speak on how they have succeeded at their craft overtime, and the place of innovation in business. They will also speak on their personal journeys, and how women have aptly taken their pride of place against all odds to emerge as business leaders while supporting change on this continent. “The session will be moderated by UBA Ghana’s Head of Marketing and Corporate Communications, Henry Dottey.” Also expected at event is the Chairman, UBA Group, Tony Elumelu; the Group Managing Director, Oliver Alawuba, other key management staff, business leaders and key players in the economic, financial and business landscape in Africa. “The UBA Africa Conversations which will begin at 12pm WAT, is open to all and will be aired online on the bank’s social media pages including Instagram, Facebook and on the website  at https://africaday.ubagroup.com/virtual-conference-room “Since 1963, Africa Day has been celebrated every year on May 25th, across the African continent and worldwide. The day was inaugurated by the Organisation of African Unity, in celebration of the unity, diversity and beauty of Africa and its people. “UBA, one of Africa’s leading financial services institutions, with a pan-African footprint spanning 20 African countries and globally in the United States of America, the United Kingdom and with presence in France, continues to lead the narrative focused on the development, growth, and unity of Africa,” the statement added.