Nume Ekeghe As part of its commitment to continually empowering the youth through various entrepreneurial initiatives, Retail giant , Access Bank has rewarded 55 members of the batch A, stream two Corps members across the country with various cash grants. A total of N15.5million was given out to corps members with winning entrepreneurial ideas in Abuja, Delta, Kaduna, Kwara and River States with the star winners receiving N1million each. According to Njideka Esomeju, Group Head, Consumer Banking, Access Bank “As an institution, we understand the role that young people play in the community and the nation, and we are committed to supporting their aspirations. We believe that the youths represent the future and hope of our nation. And we will do all we can to support their innovative ideas. “Access Bank has been in a strategic partnership with NYSC since 2016. The relationship further evolved into the launch of Accessprenuer: The NYSC edition in February 2021. We have completed 13 editions of Accessprenuer competition, impacting 490 corps members with N195m seed capital. We have a facebook community where the winners of this editions will interact freely amongst themselves and inspire young entrepreneurs with similar aspirations. The facebook community has about 5,800 members” Njide concluded. The Star prize winner in Rivers State, Obot, who wants to go into palm oil business, thanked Access Bank for motivating him with a seed capital to realize his dream and have a brighter future. Second runner up winner in Abuja, Nifemi Ademola, who pitched on tomatoes harvesting and reproduction and won N700,000 said “ I really want to thank Access Bank for this initiative. The seed capital money I won today will really assist to expand my business and also help me to acquire more tools that I need for efficient production in the future”. Ugah Ebuka, one of the N400,000 winner in Kwara said “A very big thank you to Access Bank and I pray that utilizing this cash for what it is actually meant for, my business will not just grow but be heard across the globe”.The Bank also rewarded other corps members across the country in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th -10th positions with N400,000, N250,000, N150,000, and N100,000 respectively.