Juliet Akoje in Abuja Some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives members-elect, yesterday, assured Nigerians that the lingering crisis trailing the election of Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the 10th Assembly would be resolved amicably. The lawmakers, who spoke during a media chat at the sideline of the ongoing induction of returning and newly elected lawmakers organised by National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), however, expressed support for the Chairman, House Committee on Appropriations, Hon. Muktar Betara Aliyu’s ambition. Speaking with parliamentary reporters, former Speaker, Gombe House of Assembly, Hon. Garba Inuwa, described Betara as the most qualified aspirant after wide consultation with other aspirants, who have so far expressed interest in the speakership race. “The focus of the greater majority is to have a very focussed and purposeful leadership for the 10th Assembly that will bring all members together for a good working relationship. That should be based on track record, experience and commitment. Most of us in the 10th Assembly believe that Aliyu Betara has what quality to give to Nigerians what we want in the 10th House of Representatives. “Nigeria is already in a serious problem and to come out of this problem starts and ends with having a good leadership. “Once many of us coming from the opposition parties see reason to team up with somebody from the ruling party, you should know that such a person will be committed and has the will to carry all of us along as members and has very good understanding of the tenets of the legislature and good relationship. The beneficiary of that will be the government in power. “I can tell you that the only person, who qualifies for the position and has all these qualities and is prepared and committed is Muktar Aliyu Betara. Majority of us in the greater majority group have endorsed Betara for the position and I can assure you that if today, we go in for the contest, Betara will be the Speaker. “His speakership will be the gain of Nigerians. For somebody to choose a speaker for us is a misnomer. That is undemocratic and unconstitutional. We will vote for the person that will do justice to Nigerians and I can assure you that the next Speaker of the House of Representatives is Aliyu Muktar Betara,” he said. Hon. Ikenga Ugochinyere, member representing Ideato North and South Federal  Constituency of Imo State, also kicked against the APC National Working Committee’s plot to impose its preferred Aspirants on the House. Hon. Cyril Hart (PDP, Rivers) stressed that, “the 1999 Constitution (as amended) stipulates the procedure that we should adopt as members to elect our presiding officers. I share the sentiment that the Majority Party should produce the leadership of the House even though I am of the PDP.”