Juliet Akoje in Abuja One of the frontline speakership aspirant in the House of Representatives, Hon. Yusuf Gagdi, yesterday, said the All Progressives Congress (APC)’s choice of speakership negated what the party stood for and lacked justice and equity amongst the six geo-political zones of the country. Speaking to journalists yesterday in Abuja, Gadgi who is a strong member of the G-7, a group of aggrieved speakership aspirants, stressed that the party’s decision so far on the endorsement of Hon. Tajudeen Abass and Hon. Benjamin Kalu was not known to the President-elect, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He opined that Tinubu, as a true democrat, would not deliberately be in bed with injustice. Gadgi, who is the Chairman, Committee on Navy, representing Pankshin/Kanam/Kanke federal constituency of Plateau State, insisted that the APC zoning formula lacked equity, justice and fairness especially to the North-central geo-political zone which he said contributed immensely to the victory of the party in the February 25 general elections. He argued that it was not fair to ignore the North Central zone that produced five out of six governors for APC, 11 out of 18 Senators and gave the second highest number of votes to Tinubu, stressing that out of the six key offices in the executive and legislature, the zone was not rewarded with one. “The principle of our president-elect whom I so much respect and up till today I don’t believe that what is happening today the president-elect is aware of, or it is his own idea? That is why we keep on challenging the party. Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu has promised that he would reward loyalty and commitment. “He would reward those who bring something to the table. He won only one local government in Kaduna State – Birnin Gwari – because he visited them when bandits were attacking them. The man said he would stand with you through thick and thin. “We are not against Asiwaju. We have not heard anything from him whether has he zoned or endorsed a particular candidate. Except that the candidate, particularly the one of the House of Representatives is the one and his co-travellers saying.”