Duro Ikhazuagbe  Kenya’s Daniel Simiu  Ebenyo  at first attempt yesterday erased gold-labeled Okpekpe 10km International Road Race course record of 28 minutes 36seconds with a new 28:28 and pocketed the $20,000 bonus attached to the feat.  The 27-year-old East African was clearly the pre-race favourite having just a forthright ago risen to become the 14th fastest man in the world. He won the  Istanbul Marathon and another title at the Kip Kieno Classic at home in Lenya before arriving  for his first race in Nigeria. On a wet morning in the mountainous Okpekpe setting in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State, Ebenyo denied Ethiopian Yasin Haji the opportunity to go into history books as the first champion here to successfully defend his title back-to-to.  Haji finished third in 29:34 behind another Kenya, Brian Kwemoi ( 28:40). The second and third placed runners got $8,000 and $5,000 respectively. Although Ebenyo was confident before the race without letting out his race plan for the day, he was however full of smiles and laughter  not only winning the $13,000 prize money for the winner, he by his feat of a new course record added $7,000 bonus to his haul. “I am very happy that I won the Okpekpe race at first attempt,” began the Kenyan. “ I thank God for the win ,” gushed Ebenyo shortly after crossing the finish line. In what would have been another Kenyan picking the top prize in the women’s category of the 2023 Okpekpe road race, winner, Caroline Kipkirui who emerged champion competed under the flag of Kazakhstan having switched alliance to the Eastern European country recently. She clocked 32:38 to set another course record in that women’s race.  Ludwina Chepngetich (32:53) and of Kenya and Ethiopia’s Bertukan Welde (33:06) settled for the second and third places respectively to win $8,000 and $5,000 respectively. Constant decimal in the country in the long-distance races, Ismael  Sadjo confirmed his status once again as he won the Men’s category for Nigerian runners ahead of Stephen Joshua and Francis James. In the women’s category, Patience Dalung hit the finish line first ahead of Akusho Lydia, and Deborah who were second  and third positions respectively. Promoter of the Okpekpe 10km Road Race, Mike Itemuagbor, admitted that the race has elevated a rural community like Okpekpe to be recognised globally as athletes from different countries now found it exciting and rewarding to participate in the event.