One of the nation’s top fashion designers and entrepreneur, Oluwaseyi Adekunle, popularly known as Seyi Vodi, is to be conferred with the National Honour of Officer of the Order of the Nigeria, OON. Adekunle’s name was included in the names of awardees announced in a list made by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-governmental affairs, Ibiene Roberts. While the date of the former investiture will be announced, Vodi, as he is popularly known, said, in a statement released by his office, he felt humbled by the fact that he was considered for such a very high National Honour. He added that the greater surprise was that the fashion industry which he belonged to is getting the kind of recognition it deserved through him being giving an honour of OON. “I am so humbled by this honour by my country. It is the highest anyone could ask for from his own fatherland. I am also humbled by the fact that my industry, fashion, is also being recognized. A recognition that came in appreciation of our little contributions to the society,” Adekunle said in the statement. Speaking further, the fashion entprenure who employs over 300 Nigerians, said it is high time Nigerians believed in their fatherland and give their best. “We have to believe in this country and make it great. The National Honour of OON can only spur someone like me to give more and do more for the greater benefit of the country and the the upliftment of her people.” Top Fashion Designer, Seyi Vodi, Gets OON Award One of the nation’s top fashion designers and entrepreneur, Oluwaseyi Adekunle, popularly known as Seyi Vodi, is to be conferred with the National Honour of Officer of the Order of the Nigeria, OON. Adekunle’s name was included in the names of awardees announced in a list made by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-governmental affairs, Ibiene Roberts. While the date of the former investiture will be announced, Vodi, as he is popularly known, said, in a statement released by his office, he felt humbled by the fact that he was considered for such a very high National Honour. He added that the greater surprise was that the fashion industry which he belonged to is getting the kind of recognition it deserved through him being giving an honour of OON. “I am so humbled by this honour by my country. It is the highest anyone could ask for from his own fatherland. I am also humbled by the fact that my industry, fashion, is also being recognized. A recognition that came in appreciation of our little contributions to the society,” Adekunle said in the statement. Speaking further, the fashion entprenure who employs over 300 Nigerians, said it is high time Nigerians believed in their fatherland and give their best. “We have to believe in this country and make it great. The National Honour of OON can only spur someone like me to give more and do more for the greater benefit of the country and the the upliftment of her people.”