Sunday Aborisade in Abuja Governors of the North Central geopolitical zone, yesterday, in Abuja, rejected the zoning arrangements announced by the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the leadership positions in the 10th National Assembly. The chief executives of the states in the region took the position after hours of deliberations on the issue at a meeting of their caucus in Abuja, which ended late. The governors from the region represented by Governors Yahaya Bello and Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, had earlier at a meeting  meeting  penultimate week, endorsed the position of the senators-elect on the issue. The states’ chief executives at another forum after the announcement of the leadership positions’ zoning arrangements by the APC, maintained that they were in full support of the positions of the elected senators from the region and endorsed by the governors. Their resolution was signed by the attendees including, Abubakar Sani Bello Governor Niger State and Chairman, North Central Governors Forum. Others were Simon Lalong (Governor, Plateau State); Abdulrahaman Abdulrazaq (Kwara State); Abdullahi Sule (Nassarawa); Yahaya Bello (Kogi); Rev. Fr Hyacinth Alia, Governor-elect (Benue); Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (Aspirant), Hon. Ahmed Idris Wase, Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives (Aspirant) and Yusuf Gagdi, member (Aspirant). The resolution read: “The meeting resolved as follows: That the North Central as a geopolitical zone is fully committed to supporting the incoming administration of the President-elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for a better Nigeria. It will do everything possible to ensure the Renewed Hope agenda is actualise for the prosperity of all Nigerians. “The meeting reviewed the proposed zoning structure released, and promised to reach out to the President-elect, His Excellency, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and APC National Working Committee to appeal for re-consideration of the zoning of the Presiding offices of the National Assembly as released by the NWC. “The meeting discussed the zoning as released and raised reservation with the allocation of the Positions of the Deputy Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives of the 10th National Assembly to a particular geopolitical zone of the country. “That the meeting resolved and agreed to fully utilize all necessary dialogue and consultations to resolving the NASS leadership issue, they all agreed to reach out to all major stakeholders for an amicable and acceptable zoning framework that will be all inclusive. “The governors agreed with the aspirants positions and appealed to all senators and members-elect to continue to give Mr President-elect all the support needed for the smooth take up of the 10th National Assembly, while also furthering consultations. The meeting will reconvene again to review issues,” the governors’ resolution read.