Kuni Tyessi in Abuja No fewer than 11,350 candidates yesterday participated in the first batch of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN)Professional Qualifying Examination (PQE)across the country. Registrar of TRCN, Prof Josiah Ajiboye disclosed this figure while monitoring the exercise at Sascon International School Maitama, Abuja, saying reports from across the country showed that the exam went on smoothly. Ajiboye, accompanied by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr David Adejo, further disclosed that Lagos State had the highest registered candidates for the Examination with over 1,500 entrants, followed by Kano State and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT. TRCN’s boss noted that Kebbi State had the lowest participants in the exercise, stating the exercise, however, recorded tremendous improvement in terms of participation and the accreditation process. “Well, generally, all over the country, we have about 11,350 candidates who are writing the exam, with Lagos State having the highest with 1500 plus candidates, followed by Kano State and FCT Abuja; then you have a state like Kebbi with the lowest number of candidates for the examination. “There has been a lot of improvement with regards to even the accreditation procedure, because part of what we did was to develop an app to be able to accredit candidates; and this is working perfectly well. “We are able to check your name, your passport photograph will also appear and everything like that, so we know that the people that are writing the exam are those who actually applied; so, it’s been going on smoothly,” he said. He said the examination, which is conducted in all the states of the federation, started on Wednesday and was concluded in some states on Friday. Ajiboye commended the candidates for displaying better comportment, adding that their conduct “shows that there is maturity and the people are now realising that this is a serious examination.” Speaking on the federal government’s effort to weed out unqualified teachers, he said one of the major processes of weeding out quacks in the teaching profession is the PQE as it is now obvious that nobody can get the TRCN licence without passing a provisional qualifying examination. “Even if you’re a professor in the university, you just have to write this examination before you can get the certificate and the licence. So, part of the process for weeding out this quackery in the profession is what we are on.  “Another thing that we are doing in that regard is also school monitoring. You will recall that in February 2020, we started the school monitoring programme. two boards. Monitoring is a continuous exercise.  “So, we are still on, we will not relent. We also have processes for checking our certificates, the authenticity of those certificates. We have certain features in our certificates and the licence that actually will enable us to know whether it’s really a fake one or a genuine one. So, we are on top of it.” Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Education, Adejo, commended TRCN for the improvement in the accreditation process for the examination. “This year, documentation has a double level; first, you identify yourself, fill the form, then you also cross check your sleep with an app that was developed to give it authenticity.  “I think they are improving on an incremental basis every year in the process for the professional qualification exam for teachers,” he said. Over 11,350 Candidates Sit for Teachers Qualifying Exams Kuni Tyessi in Abuja No fewer than 11,350 candidates yesterday participated in the first batch of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN)Professional Qualifying Examination (PQE)across the country. Registrar of TRCN, Prof Josiah Ajiboye disclosed this figure while monitoring the exercise at Sascon International School Maitama, Abuja, saying reports from across the country showed that the exam went on smoothly. Ajiboye, accompanied by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Mr David Adejo, further disclosed that Lagos State had the highest registered candidates for the Examination with over 1,500 entrants, followed by Kano State and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT. TRCN’s boss noted that Kebbi State had the lowest participants in the exercise, stating the exercise, however, recorded tremendous improvement in terms of participation and the accreditation process. “Well, generally, all over the country, we have about 11,350 candidates who are writing the exam, with Lagos State having the highest with 1500 plus candidates, followed by Kano State and FCT Abuja; then you have a state like Kebbi with the lowest number of candidates for the examination. “There has been a lot of improvement with regards to even the accreditation procedure, because part of what we did was to develop an app to be able to accredit candidates; and this is working perfectly well. “We are able to check your name, your passport photograph will also appear and everything like that, so we know that the people that are writing the exam are those who actually applied; so, it’s been going on smoothly,” he said. He said the examination, which is conducted in all the states of the federation, started on Wednesday and was concluded in some states on Friday. Ajiboye commended the candidates for displaying better comportment, adding that their conduct “shows that there is maturity and the people are now realising that this is a serious examination.” Speaking on the federal government’s effort to weed out unqualified teachers, he said one of the major processes of weeding out quacks in the teaching profession is the PQE as it is now obvious that nobody can get the TRCN licence without passing a provisional qualifying examination. “Even if you’re a professor in the university, you just have to write this examination before you can get the certificate and the licence. So, part of the process for weeding out this quackery in the profession is what we are on.  “Another thing that we are doing in that regard is also school monitoring. You will recall that in February 2020, we started the school monitoring programme. two boards. Monitoring is a continuous exercise.  “So, we are still on, we will not relent. We also have processes for checking our certificates, the authenticity of those certificates. We have certain features in our certificates and the licence that actually will enable us to know whether it’s really a fake one or a genuine one. So, we are on top of it.” Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary Federal Ministry of Education, Adejo, commended TRCN for the improvement in the accreditation process for the examination. “This year, documentation has a double level; first, you identify yourself, fill the form, then you also cross check your sleep with an app that was developed to give it authenticity.  “I think they are improving on an incremental basis every year in the process for the professional qualification exam for teachers,” he said.