Rebecca Ejifoma In an effort to groom young girls for leadership positions and foster their effective participation in society, the Most Beautiful Girl Mushin Odi-Olowo (MBGMOD) pageant has been launched in Mushin, Lagos. Online registration for the pageant is currently open and will run for two months after which the screening exercise would take off immediately. The Spokesperson for MBGMOD, Atileke Ajayi, announced this at a media briefing ahead of the call for entry. She said the idea behind the pageant project is to offer young girls an opportunity to engage, learn about their unique and rich culture, and showcase the community values, arts, crafts, innovation, and intellectual capacity to the world. The project seeks to challenge negative perceptions associated with the Mushin community, with a focus on supporting women and addressing challenges such as domestic violence, child abuse, sexual abuse, and low political inclusion. “By addressing these issues, we will reduce the oppression against our women and children in the years to come. We will also be able to build a coalition of young women that will grow into adulthood and emerge as leaders that people can reckon with in a competitive society.” Ajayi also highlighted other plans underway towards establishing a mentorship programme that encourages young women to take up leadership roles and understand the technology of funding their business ideas. She also pointed out that the project would boost tourism and further expose participants to the cultures and traditions of Mushin. Ajayi expressed optimism that increased inclusion of women will contribute to the growth and development of the community, despite the funding disparities they face. The winner of the pageant will receive a cash prize of N1 million, an official car, a one-year education scholarship, a N500,000 wardrobe allowance, and one-year fully funded community projects, among other rewards. The first runner-up will be awarded a N500,000 cash prize, a one-year education scholarship, a N250,000 wardrobe allowance, and fully funded community projects for one year. The second runner-up will receive a N250,000 cash prize, a one-year education scholarship, a N100,000 wardrobe allowance, and a one-year fully funded community project.