Mary Nnah “Media Industries Concept”, the producers of “The Mothers-Day TV Show,” has announced United Bank for Africa (UBA) as the headline sponsor of the 2023 edition of the programme. The event, scheduled to hold on Sunday, May 14, 2023, will feature notable women and mothers in Nigeria, who will come together to celebrate motherhood, women’s growth, and the challenges that widows face in society. The theme of this year’s programme is, “Women Helping Women Grow”, and promises to be a remarkable event, highlighting the importance of women’s empowerment and supporting the plight of widows in Nigeria. The programme will be live on Lagos State Television, LTV on terrestrial, DSTV channel 276, and GOTV channel 90.  Special guests expected at the event include the First Lady of Lagos State, Dr. Mrs. Ibijoke Claudiana Sanwo-Olu; distinguished Senator Florence Ita-Giwa; member House of Representatives and frontline contender for the position of Speaker of the House of Reps, Miriam Onuoha; former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, (NDDC), Mrs. Ibim Semenitari; Commissioner for Women Affairs & Poverty Alleviation in Lagos State, Bolaji Dada; Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment in Lagos; Otunba Chief Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke; the Executive Chairman of Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Area, LCDA, Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada; the Chairman of the Quincy Healthcare, Quincy Ayodele and other notable guests.  Notable Nollywood actors and mothers, including Gloria Anozie-Young, Ngozi Nwosu, Grace Ama, Thelma Chukwunwem, Obey Etok Chima, Chidi Ihezie Okafor, and Maimuna Yahaya-Abaji, Maureen Solomon – Okereke, Ronnie Dikko-Kila, with the legendary ARA the first female talking drummer in Africa on stage to open and close the show. Speaking on UBA’s partnership, the Group Managing Director/CEO of UBA, Mr. Kennedy Uzoka, said, “We are delighted to partner with Media Industries Concept on this year’s edition of ‘The Mothers-Day TV Show.’ As a bank, we believe in supporting initiatives that empower women and promote gender equality and inclusivity. We are committed to advancing the cause of women’s development in Nigeria and beyond, and we believe that this program will inspire and support positive change in our society.”  The Executive Producer of “The Mothers-Day TV Show,” Precious Eze, expressed his appreciation to UBA for their support, saying, “We are grateful to UBA for their sponsorship of this year’s program. The bank has a long-standing commitment to women’s empowerment, and we are thrilled to have them as our headline sponsor. We are looking forward to a successful event that will inspire positive change in the lives of women and widows in Nigeria.”