– Introduces a pivotal opportunity to support artistes across Nigeria Mary Nnah Cadbury Nigeria Plc, a subsidiary of Mondelēz International, producers of the number one leading Nigerian candy brand – TomTom, with variants; TomTom Classic and TomTom Freshlime, has been announced as the official sponsor of Nigerian Idol Season 8. This announcement was made at a media conference held in Lagos by MultiChoice Nigeria. According to the Executive Head of Content and West African Channels at MultiChoice Nigeria, Busola Tejumola, Nigerian Idol continues to offer a unique platform for artistes to showcase their talent to a growing national and continental audience. Category Lead (Gum and Candy), Cadbury West Africa, Morolake Emokpaire, discussed TomTom’s support of the music and entertainment industry at large – expressing TomTom’s enthusiasm for empowering young talented artistes. In her remarks, she said, “We are excited to be partnering with MultiChoice Nigeria to sponsor Nigerian Idol and build momentum with our investment in Nigeria’s music talent. We are proud to be associated with such an iconic talent show and look forward to the upcoming season’s activities”. TomTom’s sponsorship of the show aligns with its social mission to discover, nurture and showcase young creatives. Brand Manager (Gum & Candy), Cadbury West Africa, Joan Odafe, emphasised this in her remarks when she said:  “As part of our commitment to support young, aspiring talents, we will work with the first runner-up to further hone their music abilities. Through the programme, our team and partners will guide the individual through a boot camp, as we provide the relevant promotional media benefits to support the growth of their music career.” The show which premiered on April 23, will begin with live performances starting on May 28. The grand finale will be shown on Africa Magic Showcase, Africa Magic Urban, and Africa Magic Family every Sunday for the next nine weeks, beginning on July 16. The show’s official Channel would also be accessible on DSTV Channel 119. TomTom has continued to support the growth of talent in the entertainment space over the years through partnerships and sponsorships of events like the Clout Talk Concert, Ric Hassani Live, Pulse Fiesta, Vector’s Album Listening Party, DJ Consequence’s ‘Vibe of the Year party, and the 2022 MTV Base Cypher. With its investment in Nigeria’s music industry, Tom Tom seeks to enhance the discovery of new talent, as it contributes to nurturing and showcasing young creatives who breathe for their passions. The mint candy’s ‘Breathe for It’ programme, which includes its Verse Challenge and Breathe Summit, will be expanded to include more partnerships and platforms that encourage individual and community growth. Mondelēz International helps people to snack right in over 150 countries across the world. With global net revenues of approximately $28.7 billion in 2021, it is one of the world’s largest snack companies. The origins of Cadbury Nigeria Plc. date back to the 1950s when the business was founded to source cocoa beans from Nigeria, and as a precursor to enable the company’s founders to tap into opportunities used to serve the local consumer market with world-famous, Cadbury-branded products.