Emma Okonji Aleph, a global enabler of digital advertising in emerging countries, last week, launched its office in Lagos and into the Nigerian market space to help businesses connect with millions of consumers. The company said its entry into the country would help brands choose the right advertising strategy for their businesses across Meta technologies, including Facebook, Messenger, Instagram, WhatsApp and other social media platforms. Aleph’s entry into the market will help bridge the gap between brands and consumers, and provide a platform for businesses to reach new audiences and grow their sales. The company’s MD for Nigeria, Tintin Imevbore, said: “We are excited to bring Aleph’s expertise and experience to Nigeria. We believe there is a huge opportunity for digital advertising in this market, and we are committed to helping brands reach their target audiences and achieve their business goals.” Its Regional Marketing Manager, Michael Owatunde, said: “We are here to solve Digital Media Education in Nigeria and Africa at large with Digital Ad Expert, our proprietary and free digital media education platform  “Digital Ad Expert is educating and certifying the next generation of digital professionals across the globe, enabling more people to compete in the global digital ecosystem. Over 1000 Nigerians have already benefited from this program.” MD, sub Saharan Africa on Digital Ad Expert, Mr. Stephen Newton, said: “Our platform welcomes newcomers into the industry by teaching the basics. It also keeps experienced advertisers on top of their game by helping them sharpen their skills. Compared to other Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) our methodology leads to two times higher graduation rates, 50 per cent less dropout rates, and 90 per cent more engaged learners.” Similarly, Partner and Global Chief Operating Officer of the company, Ignacio Vidaguren said: “Over the past 18 years, we have built a global infrastructure that aggregates untapped advertising revenue from digitally developing economies. Our infrastructure acts as a bridge, widening access to and equalizing the global digital media ecosystem.” Regional Director, Meta Nigeria, Mr. Stan Martins, said: “Aleph has access to global platforms, and focuses on bringing these platforms to brands in Africa. We are Meta’s Authorized Reseller in Nigeria, providing strategic consultation and local solutions expertise.