Mary Nnah As the planning and the preparation for the maiden edition of the Drum Festival (Ayan-Agalu Festival) continue to gather momentum, the Governor of Osun State, Governor Ademola Nurudeen Jackson Adeleke, of Osun State has thrown his weight behind the festival. The festival with the theme, “Rejigging Yoruba Cultural Heritage as Catalyst for National Unity, Progress and Development – The Ayangalu Example”, will take place at Fuzion Banquet Hall, 1300 Britannia Road E, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada by 8 pm.  While acknowledging the receipt and acceptance of the invitation to the festival by Prince Segun Akanni, publisher of The Drum Online Media Incorporation and convener of The prestigious festival,  Governor Adeleke, said, “I am delighted to express my support and endorsement for the upcoming festival.” “I also wish to salute your sense of bravery, intelligence, and enthusiasm geared toward the revival of African culture and Yoruba cultural heritage. I am proud of you and your team for this noble and legendary initiative aimed at revamping our indigenous tradition and culture from a state of near oblivion to a realm of the global pedestal of fame, relevance, and glory.” Prince Segun, convener of the festival said, “Based on the fact that you are the number one citizen of Osun State, a premier Yoruba enclave that harbours Ile-Ife, the ancestral abode of all Yoruba people, where Ayan-Agalu originates from, and coincidentally the political state of the event’s chief host, we are pleased to invite you as the political host to the maiden edition of the Ayan-Agalu (Drum) Festival. “Besides, the world sees you as a global choreographer and entertainer whose dancing prowess marvels both national and continental audiences. “The Drum Festival (Ayan-Agalu Festival) cannot be organized without the physical presence of a prolific dancing colossus like you as the Yorubas would say “Ti ko basi ilu, kole si ijo”. “We also wish to use this medium to solicit your endorsement and moral support which we strongly believe will add tremendous value and prestige to the event. “In recognition and appreciation of your compelling democratic track record and choreographical iconism, we are thrilled to present an Award of Excellence on Democracy and Cultural Dance to you during the event.