Lagos Leather Fair, a platform created to showcase leather designers and the potential value of the leather industry in Nigeria and Africa has announced the launch of the 2023 edition of the Fair. As it celebrates its sixth year, Lagos Leather Fair has consistently maintained its leading position as the driving force behind the realization of the untapped opportunities in the Nigerian leather ecosystem and Africa as a whole. Themed Staying Ahead: Creativity, Collaboration, Commitment, this year’s edition will take place from the 17th to 18thof June at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. The Leather Fair will bring together indigenous brands, emerging and established designers as well as international brands to showcase their products and services to the defined audience. Lagos Leather Fair 2023 will also be launching the LLF Accelerator Programme, a mentoring design and development programme where six selected leather brands – 3 in footwear and 3 in handbags, will grow and strengthen their skills and acquire critical knowledge with the help of entrepreneurs who possess the relevant industry experience. Speaking on the announcement of LLF2023, the founder of Lagos Leather Fair, Femi Olayebi said, “The annual celebration of Lagos Leather Fair is a proof point of our unflinching commitment towards finding sustainable solutions to scale the African leather industry and ensure that the Made-in-Nigeria Project and Zero-Oil Initiative becomes a reality. For over five years, we have created an enabling environment for key players to maximise the potential of the leather industry; we are delighted about LLF2023 and look forward to the significant impact it will make in Nigeria and across Africa.” LLF2023 will feature a series of engaging conversations and masterclasses where selected speakers will be available to share insights on relevant and key topics that affect the African leather industry while featuring a well-curated series of workshops for creatives. These workshops will focus on the techniques and fundamentals of shoemaking, and on growth and marketing strategies with the aid of social media using case studies. A very special workshop – Cracking Global Markets: How African Brands can go from Local to Global – is also being organised for twenty-five (25) selected brands. This workshop will be facilitated by an International fashion and retail consultancy. In addition, LLF2023 will feature Pitch-A-LeatherBiz, a pitching session where Individual brands will pitch their business ideas to prospective investors before an audience. Lagos Leather Fair will also be introducing LLF Awards,aimed at recognising excellence and innovation, and honour outstanding leather designers. For about six years, Lagos Leather Fair has had a significant impact on the Nigerian leather industry which is the third largest in Africa after South Africa and Ethiopia. The platform has impacted relevant stakeholders through its engaging conversations, creative workshops, product exhibitions, and runway presentations.In 2022, LLF celebrated 5 years of transformative existence and significant impact in the African Leather Industry. The Fair also initiated West Africa’s first-ever digital leather exhibition, LLF Digital in 2020, to leverage growing cross-border connections and broaden the platform for participating brands.