American Television Production company, Universal Content Productions (UCP), a division of Universal Studio Group (USG), has announced a partnership with Nigerian online multimedia company, Comic Republic, to develop series based on the characters and stories from its popular Vanguards Universe.  The announcement, a first-of-its-kind was made on April 25 by the studio and is part of the move to expand its ‘World of Heroes.’  The intercontinental partnership has Selwyn Seyfu Hinds and his banner Mad Massive Entertainment set to executive produce projects based on the comic books. “From the moment I plunged into the incredible world of stories and characters built by the wonderful team at Comic Republic, I knew that this was an opportunity to fulfill Mad Massive’s mission: To tell stories that reveal our shared humanity, stories that give wings to dreams,” said Hinds.  “And as a devourer of all things fantastical from the moment I could read, having the opportunity to create multiple projects driven by characters who spring from the source of it all, from Africa, is truly the stuff of my lifelong dreams.  “I’m incredibly grateful to the teams at Comic Republic, UCP, and Mad Massive’s own Katie Zucker, who doggedly pursued this deal for more than a year. Right now, I’m just amped all the way up to work with our partners to build an entirely new, entirely different comic book universe that will entertain and inspire. Because we come from myth, from majesty, from heroes. And we deserve this.” Founded in 2013 by Jide Martin, Nigeria-based Comic Republic primarily focuses on the digital creation and distribution of original African comic books.    Speaking on the partnership, Martin said, “For ten years, Comic Republic has focused on building a community of storytellers and artists dedicated to putting Africa’s best foot forward with quality art, animations, comics, and authentic stories that would make all Africans and its diaspora beam with pride. I believe that the perception of our continent is better shaped when more people can look to African heroes as icons.  “We were patient to ensure that we found the right partners to take the story to the places we couldn’t and, most importantly, do justice to the culture it emanates from while providing much-needed representation for a generation of people that have been left out.  ‘The partnership needed to benefit the global community and us by collaboratively taking our stories, nurturing them, and delivering them to a worldwide audience. I am thrilled to be doing this with UCP, and I can’t wait to show you all what we’ve been up to.” “We realize the magnitude of staying true to these heroes and know that the creative genius of Comic Republic and the incredible vision of Selwyn Seyfu Hinds will bring these voices and characters to life in the most brilliant and big way,” said Beatrice Springborn, President, UCP and Universal International Studios.