Burly Nigerian defender Calvin Bassey was signed by Amsterdam based Dutch giants Ajax to much fanfare after a tremendous season with Scottish side Glasgow Rangers at the start of the 2022/23 season. Things have not gone to plan in the Eredivisie and the defender who was part of a record-breaking Rangers side, has also set the record for all the wrong reasons at Ajax and it is already being questioned what the future holds for the Super Eagles defender just a season in. Clean sheets In 2020, playing at Rangers under English legend Steven Gerrard, Bassey was part of the Glasgow giants side that broke a 114-year record of consecutive clean sheets after a 4-0 win over Dundee United made it seven straight clean sheets at the start of a league campaign. That run broke a record set by Celtic in 1906, then managed by Willie Maley. Bassey’s side went on to win the league that season and reaching the Europa League final later in 2021/22 was another major milestone for the side, with Bassey featuring full time in the loss. His showings in that season earned him interest from the Netherlands and the Dutch giants paid 23 million pounds to get their man, making him the best sell for Rangers in history. However, things didn’t go well for his new club, occasioned also by massive exits, including that of the manager Erik ten Hag and a number of key players. For the first time in many years, Ajax have failed to beat their close rivals, including AZ Alkmaar, PSV and runaway leaders Feyenoord. In their poor form, betting against Ajax has been easiest this season, and one can even take advantage to cash on the circus no deposit promo code to use in the Netherlands top flight, which is detailed on SportyTrader, to stake against Ajax winning. Unwanted record Sadly, Bassey is part of this unwanted record that sees Ajax go without any silverware this season, having gone through a turbulent campaign that saw them dethroned by Feyenoord. As it was a poor season for Ajax, so it was for Bassey, who has struggled to settle in and replicate his fine performances at Rangers. While Ajax was seen as a great destination for the young player he is, the 23-year old has not been able to adjust to a new system of playing and the high expectations that came with the hefty fees paid for his services. All this coming just a season after he was named in the Europa League team of the season must be hard enough to carry on his youthful shoulders. That isn’t all the defender has been forced to deal with; he has also been criticized roundly by a number of Ajax’s former players, most notably Dutch legend Wesley Sneijder, who flatly stated that the Nigerian defender was not worth the transfer fee paid to Rangers. Bassey’s light may however not be dimmed by such utterances, as the Leicester City Academy graduate is still rumored to be on an unnamed Premier League club’s radar in what could be a second chance for the youngster.