Kemi Olaitan in Ibadan The management of Access Pensions Limited has expressed its commitment to continue to deliver top-notch services to its customers across the country.  The Head, Business Development Division, South West of the company, Mr. Peter Oliti, gave the commitment recently at the Customers Forum, held at the School of Nursing, UCH, Ibadan.  He said the company, which came into being last December with the merger of Sigma Pensions and First Guarantee Pension, is dedicated to implementing retirement portfolios that deliver competitive returns, stating that it has a highly skilled and experienced team of investment professionals. He disclosed that the edge that Access Pensions Limited has over other Pension Funds Administrators (PFA), is the commitment to deliver excellent pension services to its customers, noting that its investment process operates within a strong culture of risk management given the delicate nature of retirement savings. Oliti while appreciating the customers in UCH for turning out in large numbers for the forum, the first since its merger, said the forum was to sensitize the customers in UCH on the latest development in the pension industry and the immense value proposition Access Pensions has to offer its clients both serving and retired.  He enjoined them to remain committed to the company for them to have value for their investment, insisting that with experienced team of investment professionals with over 100 years of cumulative experience in the financial landscape their investment is in safe hands. According to him, “We cannot but be overwhelmed with the turnout that we recorded today more so been the first time that we are bringing the customers under one umbrella of Access Pensions. I can only appeal to them to continue to remain steadfast and committed as Access Pensions is presently ranked number two on returns on investment for 2022.” The Unit Head, Service Centre, West, Mr. Adewunmi Adejumo, in his own remarks, assured that Access Pensions would always strive to be the leader in returns on investment and customers service delivery, stating that it integrates risk management into every aspect of its investment process.