Kunle Adewale It is very rare for the administrators of the league in Nigeria to stick to its proposed kickoff dates. Clubs have severally witnessed postponements of league dates, sometimes as many as thrice. Against this backdrop however, the egg heads of the Interim Management Committee, IMC, have promised that the August date proposed for the kickoff of next season’s Nigeria Premier Football League, NPFL would not change. In an interview with THISDAY, IMC’s Head of Operations, Davidson Owunmi said the committee would stick to the date set for next season’s NPFL kickoff   . “We intend to start the league on schedule and end it at the right time. We didn’t just wake up and decide that the league will start in August. The committee has deliberated and is convinced that August is achievable for the league to start before making it public. “Moreover, it will be to the disadvantage of our clubs representing the country in the continent not to be involved in league matches before playing continental games. This has been one of the major reasons why our clubs don’t do well in the continent and we want to forestall this, that is why we’re doing everything to ensure the leagues kicks off as scheduled,” Owunmi explained. In spite of the fact that the recently concluded Abridged league was hailed in several quarters, the former Enugu Rangers striker said next season’s league would be a straight league. “The Abridged league was as a result of circumstances and it’s not something we would want to encourage. The plan of the IMC is to put up a league that will be of world standard. It is not something you see in developed countries and we will do everything not to encourage it here either, “ the IMC Head of Operations noted. Meanwhile, IMC has commended the 20 clubs that participated in the recently concluded NPFL Abridged league. IMC chairman, Gbenga Elegbeleye hailed the clubs for helping to achieve alignment with the international football calendar. He also congratulated the Nigeria Referee Association for maintaining a high standard officiating throughout the season. “We asked the referees to give us quality officiating which I can say today they reciprocated very much above average. It is part of our success story”, the IMC Chairman said. “Today, I would like to commend the clubs for their understanding and subsequent cooperation with us in implementing our strategies to meet the terms of reference issued to the IMC.” Six clubs will compete in the Super Six playoffs which will hold from June 3-11 at the Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan Lagos to determine the overall winner of the league.